This is Jocko podcast number 95 with Echo Charles and me,
Jocko Willink.
Good Evening Echo.
Good evening.
The president of the United States of America authorized by act of Congress July
9th,
1918 takes pleasure in presenting the distinguished service cross to Second
Lieutenant Air Corps,
James K Conkle,
United States Army Air Forces for extraordinary heroism in connection with
military operations against an armed enemy while serving as the pilot of a p 38
fighter airplane in a 401st fighter squadron 370th fighter group,
ninth air force in aerial combat against enemy forces on 16 September,
1944 during an air mission over Aiken,
Germany on this date while flying as rear man in a squadron on an armed
reconnaissance mission,
lieutenant Conkle noticed that his squadron was about to be surprised by a
vastly superior force of enemy aircraft on able to summon his leader on the
radio.
He alone on hesitatingly,
pulled away from his formation and vigorously attack the enemy immediately
destroying one of his aircraft.
In doing so,
lieutenant Conkle placed himself in a position to be attacked from rear and
above.
Okay.
When this attack materialized,
many hits were registered on his aircraft,
which caught fire burning his face,
neck and hands.
Okay.
Despite his burning plane and the gunfire from enemy planes,
Lieutenant Kunkel continued his attack against the vastly superior enemy force
and succeeded in destroying a second enemy aircraft breaking off combat only
when forced to parachute to safety.
When his left fuel tank exploded.
Second Lieutenant [inaudible] on questionable valor in aerial combat is in
keeping with the highest traditions of military service and reflects great
credit upon himself.
The ninth air force and the United States army air forces.
Yeah,
so
that is a military citation for a distinguished service cross.
And this pilot also flew missions just after d day,
including armed reconnaissance flights and attacks on German trains and vehicles
and airfields.
And also this pilot flew close air support missions to help push Germany out of
France and drive allied troops towards victory.
And it is an absolute honor to have this pilot,
this hero on the podcast with us today.
Mr Jim Conkle,
sir,
thank you very much for joining us.
It is great to have you on more than book.
And you know,
if that wasn't good enough,
I am also honored to welcome back to the podcast.
Jim cankles friend,
fellow pilot,
another American hero,
Captain Charlie Plumb f four Phantom pilot shot down on his 75th mission in
Vietnam War and spent six years as a prisoner of war in Vietnam.
Captain Charlie Plumb,
sir,
welcome back to the show.
Thank you jack.
Oh,
nice to be back.
And for those of you that haven't listened to captain plumb the first time he
came on on the podcast,
just stop.
Now go to podcast number 76 a because that is a,
that is a whole incredible story of,
of his time in captivity.
It's detailed in the book that Captain Plumb wrote,
which is called,
I'm no hero,
but go back and listen to that and then you can return and you can listen to
this podcast.
But it was interesting because when we got done with that first podcast and I
was taking captain plumb to the,
to the train station,
which is,
which is odd in its own right,
to have the pilot to riding a train.
I don't,
I don't know if you'd approve of that to have the captain on a train,
but,
and he said,
hey,
you know,
I got this buddy,
you might want to talk to him.
And he said,
you know,
he's a World War II pilot fighter pilot and you know,
he's a B,
B,
a great guy to talk to.
And of course I said,
ah yeah,
absolutely.
So it took us a little bit of time but here we are and this is also the first
time we've had more than one guest at one time on the podcast and sitting
amongst you too.
My plan is to sit back and listen to you to talk about whatever you want to talk
about.
I've heard some of the stories and uh,
and actually interestingly the podcasts that just came out last week was about a
book called the men at Arnhem,
which detailed the,
the British participation in the in Operation Market Garden,
which started on September 17th,
1944 and as I was reading your say citation,
if you noticed that was September 16th,
1944 that you were,
that you were shot down.
And that's,
that's a right at the beginning or right,
right before that,
that operation took place.
Who afterwards the true.
Um,
uh,
of course.
So I missed it.
Um,
but I heard some very
interesting stories later on.
Um,
uh,
I was picked up in a,
evac hospital,
uh,
by the first,
well,
the first infantry division picked me up.
They saw my shoot and came out and got me and,
uh,
thank goodness it was never leave anyone behind,
so they didn't leave me behind and I thanked him profusely.
But,
um,
uh,
through the EVAC hospital to a general hospital and then a hospital train to
Paris and the train was completely full of,
uh,
casualties from the Arnheim operation.
So,
uh,
I wasn't too good a shape at that time to listen to the stories.
But later on in the hospital in Paris,
I heard some real horror stories about what went on up there and being a ninth
air force pilot,
uh,
we were working with the ground troops and we really appreciated what their
problems were and the difficulties that they had.
And we tried to help them in every way that we could.
So that was a,
uh,
there was a very trying time.
So I guess before we get into all that at any greater depth,
how did you end up as a pilot?
What,
you know,
how did,
how did you end up there in terms of where did you grow up?
And I know you grew up here and in California.
No,
I was
born in Pennsylvania and new Kensington,
Pennsylvania.
My father was a,
it was in the steel business.
And in 1932,
uh,
my dad passed away from injuries that he had received in the first world war.
And so we,
at that time,
he had retired from his business even though he was only 36 years old at that
time.
But we were coming to California and back.
We were pretty well packed and had closed the house and the whole works.
I'm nine years old and he went to the hospital in New York instead and passed
away.
And My mother,
um,
who,
uh,
didn't even drive an automobile at that time.
Uh,
I can remember her asking me,
do you want to go to California?
And I said yes.
And she took some driving lessons and bought a Chevy and we came to California
on route 66 when they were building it.
And so my mother prayed to her way.
She tell a porn that I benefited.
She's a new driver.
I bet she wasn't the only one that was framed,
but even at nine,
I can still remember,
uh,
she was driving and the,
an amount of taxes and I'm out portion.
So my mother was a very courageous woman,
no doubt.
So He,
um,
my dad had been very interested in aviation and I would pick that up and back.
Uh,
uh,
he used to do,
steel castings for,
uh,
Curtis Wright in,
um,
uh,
in Buffalo,
New York.
And we'd go up there and every,
every time we went on a trip,
and I'm six,
seven,
eight,
nine years old,
we'd go flying.
Wow.
We'd go for a ride someplace.
And so I picked it up at that time and,
and pursued it.
And then you,
you get out to California and that's where you go through high school and
whatnot.
Through high school,
I,
uh,
ended up in Beverly Hills High School and,
September,
uh,
1939,
as you know,
the war started well just prior to that,
I mean it was all the talk of Europe and the possible and the war.
And I decided that this is going to be my senior year and if there's going to be
a war,
we're going to be in one way or another.
And so I went out and joined the California National Guard.
Uh,
they,
uh,
they had a squadron,
there was based in Griffith Park,
California and it was,
um,
a bunch of a world war one pilots.
And we had some old biplanes Douglas Oh,
38,
uh,
observation aircraft,
open cockpit.
And some of the later ones had even had a canopy over.
And I,
um,
I really,
uh,
had been hanging around airports.
My mother was very helpful.
She,
this was before I had a driver's license.
He would take me out to the local airports,
grand central air terminal.
I'd spend the whole day Saturday out there and sometimes you'd even get a 10
minute ride if anybody had any money to buy gas with.
But I'm coming back to the guard a,
I spent a year with them and it was a very,
very interesting year.
The,
these fellows that were the pilots,
they were all mostly combat pilots from World War One.
And,
um,
I sat at their knee and,
and listened to all the stories from that.
Um,
uh,
the,
of course,
if my idea was I was going to be a fighter pilot,
uh,
I had friends at Lockheed and I knew about the p 38 and I decided that I wanted
to fly a Pete 38 wanting to go to England.
And um,
luckily it worked out that way.
So what,
what year did you transfer from the,
the air national guard into,
and how did you get a committee?
Did you get a commission?
Do you have to go to college and not have to go to college at that time to get a
commission to be a pilot?
Uh,
actually,
uh,
the guard was federalized and we went on maneuvers through to Halos,
Washington.
And we were attacking for Fort Lewis and
the guard.
We were the attackers and the,
we were up there for three weeks on the newers.
Well,
while we were up there,
we got notice that the air guard was going to be federalized and drawn into
active duty.
And it,
I wasn't 18 years old yet,
so I hadn't
the have permission.
Were you already a pilot at this to know I'm a gunner,
gunner
got airplane,
maybe go 150 miles an hour.
So,
uh,
but,
um,
no,
I was in the armament section
and it was run by a sergeant white sergeant white kind of took me under his wing
and I got some pretty nice assignments out of it and I've learned a lot.
Um,
I got the flyer in the back seat and uh,
I'd go out on weekends.
You know,
we had duty once a month,
uh,
in the guard,
but you could go out on weekends and I'd worked at the airport and,
uh,
10 an extra flight in and the,
the pilots of the guard were,
if they knew you were interested,
they would take you under their wings.
So I got quite a bit of flying time and it's,
uh,
for a,
you're 17 years old.
I was a 17.
In fact,
I was 16 when I joined and I'm sure,
but
you know,
this cut into my school,
not the academics because I wanted to be,
uh,
air force pilot.
You had to be 21.
You had to have two years of college and I'm in 1940 and 41.
This is Devin,
pretty tight to do when we entered the war.
So I didn't really figure I was going to graduate from college,
so I wanted to get in the,
the classes that would do me the most good if I could become a,
an aviation cadet.
And,
um,
it,
it all,
it all worked out.
Uh,
we,
um,
in the interesting thing was to me,
uh,
in April,
I took some time off on school and I went down and call it a job at North
American
aviation.
And I worked on the first 10 p 50 ones built.
Uh,
I didn't,
Steven wants today on the line.
In fact,
one of the,
of the original first 10 is in the museum at Oshkosh.
So some place within that airframe,
there's some of my work.
And,
um,
uh,
that was,
that would've been the summer of 1941,
uh,
September.
And I was going back to school and I become accustomed to all that money.
I've been making it North American,
we got 35 cents an hour when I started there,
but,
you know,
35 cents an hour.
It wasn't too bad because I worked alongside people that had two or three kids
and they're supporting the whole family on the 35 cents an hour.
Uh,
we had a little,
a labor dispute at North American and they raised it to 50 cents.
So we were really rolling in the cash.
But,
um,
in September,
wanting to dip back to school,
but I enjoyed that didn't come.
So I went to Lockheed,
they had a graveyard shift and I worked at seventh in Santa Fe,
downtown Los Angeles.
A Lockheed aircraft had taken over this big warehouse and they were building the
wings and the empanadas for the p 38.
And they're also building the wings for the Hudson bomber,
which they'd gotten this very large contract from,
from the British.
And um,
it,
uh,
I was there when the war started.
Actually I could,
I was there the night that they attacked Los Angeles and the whole place was
blacked out.
If you remember the famous story of the air raid on Los Angeles that I don't
remember that story.
Well,
he clearly,
actually,
I wasn't even close to being born,
neither was my dad.
But what happened when they attack Los Angeles?
When I miss out on us,
the probably the most logical story that I ever heard was it a,
a navy,
a PB.
Why flew over Los Angeles and somebody hit the panic button and all the search
lights came on.
And,
uh,
you could hear a,
an aircraft in the background probably from Fort Macarthur or someplace like
that.
And the whole Lockheed plant was blacked out.
So we sat there in the dark for about three hours while they fought this battle
with the,
with the unseen enemy.
And it of course made all of the newspapers.
It was a big story.
So,
uh,
anyway,
for World War Two started as far as the u s was concerned.
December 7th,
uh,
right after that they,
um,
uh,
they dropped the age limit from 21 to 18 for the aviation cadet program and they
dropped the,
the two year con a college,
a requirement to a high school.
And so,
uh,
I went down and signed up with about 300,000,
another guy
and
offer,
I,
they,
there was that many people that wanted to be pilot.
Oh.
But they were thick.
Wow.
In fact,
um,
uh,
I was quite concerned.
Um,
I,
um,
I signed up,
they,
uh,
have been in June.
I waited until September before they called me down to downtown.
Los Angeles swore me in as a private,
as a duration,
as a cadet,
and a thought,
well,
now I'm on my way.
Well then I went home and waited another four or five months before they called
us up.
They were,
they had so many people that,
and there was no place to put them and they were trying to build Santa Ana army
air base,
which was the induction,
uh,
area for a pork cadets on the west coast.
And they were just overwhelmed with it.
Didn't even have the barracks to put them in.
So eventually I got called up and I went through in a little less than 10 months
through,
uh,
Santa Ana,
which is preflight,
uh,
went up to two,
Larry California,
uh,
for primary in Stearmans,
to Tex Rankin school in Texas had been a,
the aerobatic champion,
uh,
of the u s and so,
it was,
it was a fun school.
So they,
so they,
they hired the best civilian pilot and had him come out and train you guys?
That's correct.
In fact,
a texts actually owned that operation.
They,
um,
they appointed most of the primary was,
uh,
we're a private enterprise.
There were set up by the air force for Cadet training in primary in the primary
basis.
And so,
uh,
you,
you went through,
but I got about 60 hours.
I flew the Stearman and we have behind us our competitor,
but this aircraft was used mainly on the east coast.
We didn't see many of them out to California.
We had Stearmans and Ryan's and on the west coast,
um,
got through primary,
uh,
went to basic,
now we're on a military base and the,
I went to Lemoore,
California and that was one of the largest,
um,
uh,
air force
army air corps basis.
Uh,
and it's just on final,
you can still see the hangers and everything.
The final at Lemoore naval air station,
you can still see all the hangers,
uh,
from,
um,
from our old base.
Wow.
But,
um,
got through basic,
went down to Williamsfield,
Arizona.
And uh,
that brought me closer to the p 38.
Most of the [inaudible] came out of Williamsfield,
uh,
just south of Phoenix.
And from there,
uh,
we were on a fast track and we weren't quite sure why we were on this big fast
track,
but all of a sudden we get 90 days.
I got to fire the guns once in the [inaudible] uh,
one gun.
We had four 50s in the 20 millimeter in the nose and they let us flour.
One of the fifties a all of a sudden we're on a train going to the east coast
and we're heading for England.
Wow.
When you went,
you said you wanted to fly out a p 38 and yet you had worked on the [inaudible]
ones.
What was the deciding factor that made you want to fly a p 38 instead of a
[inaudible]
one?
The piece 38 was the high altitude fighter.
Yeah,
it was,
uh,
it was probably,
it was our first,
uh,
real combat aircraft.
The [inaudible] was a stop gap airplane did very well.
He's 39,
didn't do well at all.
Um,
the 38 was the only high performance airplane.
We had to peep 51 at the time that I worked on,
it was a low altitude airplanes.
Got An Allison engine and anything above 11 to 12,000 feet,
you are,
you're out of power.
So,
um,
uh,
the 51 was going to be a,
um,
a,
a low altitude British used aircraft and that's what they wanted extremely fast
and they used it for,
uh,
a tactical work.
And,
um,
so that as far as I wanted to be an air aerial combat,
I wanted to be a fighter pilot and shoot down a bunch of airplanes.
So,
so I stuck with the 38 and of course I didn't realize the British were footing
the Merlin engine in the peak 51 about that time.
And we were going to get the greatest air to air combat airplane of the war.
But um,
yeah,
the,
I guess that's what threw me off was cause you know,
I always thought of the p 51 as being,
as being,
you know,
the best air to air combat aircraft of the war.
But I didn't realize that it had gun didn't get there immediately and it had to
get there in stages.
So that,
that,
that makes sense to me now.
Yeah.
Well,
they did come and stages and plus the fact that when they did get the Merlin
engine that went to the eighth air force and the airports had the greatest por
group and the whole world,
uh,
they,
they had access to all the newspapers.
They got all the publicity,
the people 51 was the greatest airplane in the whole world.
The poor old p 38 had been more soldiering from early 1942 in the Pacific on to
North Africa.
And uh,
in doing well all the way and no matter what you ask it to do with it,
to do it.
So,
um,
I was still a [inaudible] the uh,
Fan,
I got to England and I had um,
great interest
in aerial combat.
Uh,
there was a fellow by the name of Screw Ball Berlin,
who was an raf pilot and he was one of the greatest deflection,
uh,
shooting experts in the,
in combat.
I've just
was the hero of Malta.
They are.
So you said the greatest,
what?
Deflection.
Deflection,
shooting w which is what does that,
that means that the,
when you're coming in on an aircraft,
if you're on his tail,
you've got zero deflection.
If he's in a turn,
now you've got to move the know that your,
your aim point out in front of that airplane.
Got It.
And you've got what they called a hundred mill site,
uh,
which was,
I've forgotten now I guess,
but it was about so many inches per thousand feet.
And,
and radio you'd say is your,
if you're in a 30 degree turn,
you might put one radio or radio high on half in front of him and it's all
eyeball a 90 degrees.
You're out maybe seven or adi way out here.
And so,
uh,
that's the flection shooting and all this is before we got the Gyro site,
which we never gotten a p 38,
but the 51,
Scott,
the gyros site,
the computed that for you.
So you'd put the,
the size of the airplane would be put into the site by a little slide,
uh,
clearing,
not adjusted your site,
uh,
on your reflector.
And so then you'd put the pepper right on the aircraft and the site with compute
got it.
The uh,
the lead necessary to hit it.
So,
uh,
anyway,
I had studied those angles off,
you know,
an hour before you go to sleep,
after you go to bed,
you,
you're doing computations on how many,
uh,
Ray,
I lead what position,
whether you're going up or going down or sideways or whichever way you want to
go.
But,
um,
I'll,
I'll set for a combat.
I get to England and
all of a sudden I'm in the ninth air force and now this is the,
the mud air force and the support of the ground troops and,
and uh,
all operations,
usually at fairly low altitude.
So you're calling them the mud air force,
is that what you're,
is that what you said?
Yup.
And that's just to debts delineating that these guys are working with the ground
troops and you're flying low and the dream of aerial combat is not so much their
ranking.
That's right.
Eight Air Force is the glamour force has got the old guys must've been,
uh,
all ears though.
I mean you talked about screw ball,
but,
but the RAF pilots that had fought the battle of Britain,
I mean d will you guys getting lessons learned from them and and where you were
they actually directly teaching you guys at all?
Uh,
they talked to us.
we didn't have any formal instruction from them,
uh,
conversations and usually at the bar,
at the old club or officer's club,
we called it.
Uh,
I got two,
two good points.
The old RF sergeant who had flown in the battle of Britain told me that if you
have a jury on your tail,
do something violent.
He said,
doesn't make any difference what it is.
Just make sure it's violent.
And the second thing was keep your eye on his,
his exhaust because that's your first indication you're going to get of what,
what he's trying to do.
And um,
I thought those were two good points.
And I used them a couple times.
Yeah,
the,
the violent piece.
I mean,
you could apply that to really many situations in life where,
you know,
we see people in there,
they're in a bad position in life.
They need to do something violent to move out of that situation,
sit there and wait for something to unfold.
That was not only air combat that went a,
yeah,
and that's interesting about watching the exhaust because you'd see a change in
that,
like a plume come out of the exhaust or you'd see the exhaust cut off and you'd
know what type of maneuver and they were going to do.
He's trying to pull a fast one and yanked the power off new overrunning money
shoot you down.
So,
but the mother forest is a,
that came along,
um,
we began to realize just how much help we were to the ground forces and,
and it was pretty primitive
covering a lot of area here in the big then we'll roll really short time.
But uh,
you know,
we,
we had,
we had no navigational radio.
We can have four channel VHF.
Uh,
that meant that usually could talk amongst the squadron,
but the word was don't be a near eight squadron.
Don't talk on the art Rt.
They off.
We had that same philosophy and all my seal platoons and seal task and stay off
the radio.
Yup.
And,
um,
now you're trying,
you know,
we're doing ground support.
Uh,
they'd give us a coordinates on the chart.
Now you could go and go out and find it and it's all ball.
So when you're eyeballing the ground and you're looking for ground targets,
you're wide open and you're six,
six o'clock position.
So,
uh,
would you fly with multiple people or multiple aircraft?
So someone had the duty of watching the rear?
Uh,
yes.
we did.
And in fact,
that's a,
I got to duty several times.
Um,
what we,
we did,
uh,
we usually Plu as a squadron.
Sometimes we'd fly as a group with three squadrons.
Usually we try to put up at least 12 aircraft as a squadron of Max would be
maybe four flights of course 16.
And so,
uh,
to,
to answer your question about,
um,
uh,
you know,
being attack from the rear and so forth.
And the six o'clock,
the Germans developed the tactic against the tactical aircraft,
which we were,
and they would,
they started vectoring,
uh,
they're fighters in,
with ground control radar.
And your first indication was all of a sudden you had a swarm mood,
uh,
enemy aircraft that you six o'clock.
And in early August of 44,
um,
one of our sister,
uh,
groups [inaudible] ninth air force,
lost a half a squadron,
just they got hit and they,
they were surprised.
And,
um,
so we thought,
well,
boy,
we better,
we better do something about that.
So we started putting,
uh,
a couple of experienced people instead of putting your,
your first
mission fellow in the rear end purple heart corner,
we called it and let him drag along way.
We thought,
well,
let's put somebody back there that's going to have a little experience in the
way.
And,
and so we did that and I drew one of the first missions back there and,
and sure enough,
her,
they came and,
uh,
I spotted them and called the break and made the break who squatter and kept on
going.
And the break
is you're saying,
Hey,
I'm going to break off from the squadron right now,
or someone needs to come with me or we to face this other issue over here.
We got a bunch of enemy aircraft coming.
That's what,
that's what calling the break is.
Call your break and know when you call them,
break the whoever's spot of the are crap leads work because you don't want to
lose them.
You can't take it.
Do you see them?
You got to keep your eye ball on them or you're going to lose them.
And so you make the,
you call the break,
you make your break into them from whatever position they're coming from the
squadron,
then we'll break with you.
And so all aircraft are now turning into the enemy.
And probably I'm an experienced air to air combat group.
That was just the normal CGIAR,
our ninth air force guys.
We didn't do much of this.
And so,
um,
uh,
when I'm called,
I called the break,
I made the break and all of a sudden I'm by myself and squadron kept on going.
And now,
whether they didn't hear me or whatever,
I,
I have no idea.
So all I had was a couple of [inaudible] w one nine these and the around circle
sitting on a flat wing and all lit up 20 millimeters.
And we're doing,
we got into a pretty tight turn and,
and all of a sudden I lost him in the turn and I'm looking at my six o'clock and
you might've been facing backwards.
We've been a lot easier,
but I turned around front and in my gun gunsight here's the depth,
w one 90.
I mean I'm on top of it and he
apparently spotted me about the same copy I think I fired a burst at,
and I'm not even sure,
but he did a flick role so quick,
but I literally,
he just flicked,
rolled out of my peak 30.
It wouldn't do that.
The early ones,
uh,
the later ones had aileron boost and they would actually could perform that fast
rule,
right.
A role.
So he,
um,
he got away from me and I was in a perfectly wonderful shot physician to
shooting down.
Um,
so that was our first encounter.
And the second encounter was the one where you would read the citation.
I made the break.
Nobody came with me and I have more than I could have him.
What do you mean when you,
before we get to that one,
when you were doing close air support for troops on the ground and you had four
radio nets that you could be on,
would you be talking to the guys on the ground?
Uh,
yes,
in some,
some.
Sometimes you could,
you'd be under with the controller.
Now the,
uh,
the ninth air force was a mainly 40 sevens.
We had one group of p 50 ones,
three 54th than they had been the pioneer group with the Merlin power,
uh,
51,
but they ended up in the ninth air force.
But usually they were used with the eighth air force for the escorted the
bombers.
But,
um,
so the majority,
ninth air force was a big air force.
We had a lot of fighter groups.
I've forgotten now how many we actually have,
but most of them were,
p 47th and 47 was a great,
um,
aircraft for close support.
And,
um,
uh,
we had four groups of Pete 38 s in the thing.
So most of the close support work was done by the [inaudible] in a real max
effort.
We were used as close support,
but,
uh,
the p 47 was a very short range.
Uh,
38,
we had a lot of range.
We could carry a,
a larger bomb load than either the 47 and the 51 actually of the 38 could carry
two,
2000 pound bombs.
That's 4,000 pounds and that's Europe in be 17 country with that.
So,
um,
uh,
we couldn't always get them.
Usually we can find some thousand pound,
but normally we'd carry it five hundreds.
Um,
I like that the thousand because the bigger the bangs,
the less chance you have to go back and do it again.
And when you went back to do it again,
they're waiting for him.
Up until that point.
That was kind of your primary mission then was going in and hitting railway
stations or fat munitions factories,
armed reconnaissance,
anything that moved.
And if you couldn't find anything,
you moved,
you try to shoot the Angela insulators off the high tension lines.
So any,
anything you could get.
Um,
we,
uh,
there was,
there was no problem finding targets and different from the eighth air force.
Um,
uh,
we were over the target area,
in a relatively short time.
So,
uh,
they were shooting at you most of the time.
How long did you,
how long did you arrive in England before d day actually happens?
Uh,
just a short time before detail and I've forgotten the exact date that we did
arrive in England.
And had you flown missions before d day snorted?
No.
So your first missions were action right there and the 38,
because they were so easy to recognize in the air.
Uh,
we were assigned the channel.
we,
we flew top cover for the channel,
all the shipping and everything between England and the beach head.
And,
uh,
we,
at that time,
it became very apparent that the reason we had been rushed into two training
into England was the anticipated,
uh,
heavy losses.
Uh,
we expected the Luftwaffe to really show during the invasion.
They didn't,
I've been to bread that there were just the,
I think they had two sorties over the beachhead on d day,
and we anticipated that there would be a larger effort against the channel with
all the shipping.
I mean,
you could probably walk across the channel with a number of ships.
Uh,
there were,
there,
um,
this tremendous target.
The fourth didn't show up.
So,
uh,
most of the,
like my group,
the Uja missions were pretty boring.
W when you were,
when d day was about to go,
I mean,
it's every single person.
You guys must have absolutely known that what you were about to do was that was,
you know,
going to be that one of the most epic undertakings of the modern history all.
Yes,
it was 100%.
You guys all knew that.
And it was every little by road in England,
those jammed with equipment.
And you know,
it's funny,
uh,
coming back through,
some of the things we hear today about our country,
uh,
in,
in 1940,
41,
uh,
I,
well,
1940,
I was up in Chehalis,
Washington and we were flying.
Uh,
there was a whole,
Oh,
38,
we had two brand new airplanes from North American.
Oh,
47th had a thousand horsepower.
Great aircraft.
Not worth a damn and combat.
But,
uh,
we,
we knew that we were again,
working with the,
uh,
with the ground troops and we would fill a little paper sacks with white flour
and that was our bombing.
We'd attack them what to bridge head and throw toilet paper out and these little
sacks full of flour and a few drape toilet paper over a bridge on then the
squally river.
The infantry couldn't use it anymore,
so they had to get across the river some other way.
And mortars,
a cross two by fours served as a mortar,
um,
cavalry on horses.
They got lost.
We had to go look for him.
Now,
that's the 1940 in June 44 as far as you could see as American made equipment,
everything.
Not only what we were carrying,
but we supplied the British and everyone else this magnificent effort by this
magnificent country.
And you just,
it's unbelievable.
When you think back,
uh,
just before d day,
as I say,
every,
every little road was jammed with stored equipment.
Can't imagine that's the one of the island didn't sink,
but,
uh,
no,
I,
I've actually,
I out on a recent podcast,
I was talking about the fact that many of American,
or,
or at least as much of America's victories in many cases that have to be
attributed to our ability to produce and make things and,
and America's incredible ability to,
like you said,
build such incredible equipment in such a short amount of time.
It's,
it's epic.
it really was.
And we switched from a isolation.
Henry Ford was an isolation is as I understand,
and he turns around and go,
the bomber plans is turn it out.
Six,
seven,
eight,
10 B,
24 hours a day.
Yeah.
So,
uh,
this fantastic effort,
but we all stood together in those days.
Yeah.
When,
when,
um,
I always read that for d day,
they,
they wanted troops,
not all,
but they were looking for,
they brought a lot of troops that didn't have any combat experience.
I don't think a 5% of the people that hit the beaches had experience.
You know,
it's funny,
I got in trouble in Paris a few years out of yard.
This is a good story.
My wife can hear it.
She was there and fine.
But we were at a dinner in Paris,
some
d day celebration and I made a mistake.
I stood up and said to the people in the room that the ground troops here,
the infantry,
um,
all you people that landed on d day,
I said,
d day is your day.
It's not the air force.
His Day,
the missions,
we flew on DJ where what we've been doing for two years out of England and it
was,
there was no better,
no worse.
But when you stop and think that those kids that hit that beach,
no experience,
uh,
officers,
no experience in combat.
And so in my opinion and all stand by it.
And I had a few people at the dinner who objected to what I said,
but d day was the guys that hit the beach.
We,
uh,
we supported them,
but we didn't do much more than what we have been doing day after day.
Um,
you know,
you can talk about the eighth air force and the heavy bombers and the fact that
their,
their losses were,
you've been a total marine loss in world war two.
So we,
we've been hurt,
but,
uh,
d day,
that belong to those youngsters.
What was the,
because these,
these guys were so,
you know,
we're inexperienced when you were out at a pub in England talking to these army
guys that were getting ready to go in where they just a hundred percent fired up
to go.
Uh,
that's the only thing.
Cause I,
I can imagine myself when I was 18 or 19 years old,
I first was in the military.
If you would have told me I was going to do a giant amphibious landing,
an epic amphibious landing,
there would have been just nothing.
But,
um,
absolute motivation and an excitement from me because I was young and stupid and
didn't know any better were all young I guess.
I guess at some point.
Young and stupid goes a long way,
doesn't it?
Well,
I can tell you a little story about that.
I was at Camp Kilmer.
We were in fact,
we thought we were going to fly across to England out of,
we expected air transportation for,
they were a group of about 18 pilots and uh,
I think we were set to fly and all of a sudden they gave us all this equipment
and um,
uh,
leggings and backpacks and helmet and all this stuff.
That kind of stuff makes pilots nervous,
doesn't it?
Good.
Not only made us nervous,
made damn fools out.
Nobody knew how to use this stuff.
And I know I got the leggings on.
I know they were from World War One.
They gave me this backpack and,
and all of this gas,
underwear and everything and they didn't tell us how her packet and I went out
behind the barracks and there was a clothes line back there and I got some
clothes line and I tied to stem pack up with clothes line and um,
they gave me a helmet and I never tried it on so that that evening get getting
ready and we start marching down some tour to the gates of the camp Kilmer that
Lotus a on trucks and we're over getting on the Queen Elizabeth.
And you had to go down or
pure and then up a whole bunch of stairs to get to the end of the entrance to
the ship.
And I had a p four bag with all of my clothes there.
Everything on the had a bottle of Scotch in there.
And I packed very carefully and I had a portable radio and the portable radios
and those days were like 36 inches long and full of batteries.
So I'm carrying this thing and they gave me this damn helmet,
but they didn't give me the interior of it.
And so this stem without the inside of it.
Every time I took a step that was coming down on the nose and then bouncing back
again,
we go up the stairs and someplace along the line,
I set that back down too long and now I got scotch out the bottom four back and
we,
we come to where they're checking your sin and there was a full colonel army
colonels
and he says,
my God,
we're going to lose
believeable.
Uh,
uh,
so there you go.
We got people that don't know how to wear their helmets,
packing their bags filled with scotch and you know,
for the war.
Uh,
so,
but when you're,
when you're talking to guys,
they're there,
they're ready to go and be day commences.
Nate,
they just don't,
they don't know.
They don't understand what they're getting into yet.
And,
and again,
maybe to the credit of the planners,
they decided it's better to have a bunch of guys that aren't really a hundred
percent sure of what to expect.
And it is to have a bunch of people that know what they're getting into and know
how hard this is going to be.
Well,
in fact,
what I started to saved before I got off again,
you have to watch me very carefully
in your board.
Well,
you go down to the officer's Club just before,
uh,
we were going to take off for England and there's quite a party going and,
and there was a little spirits flowing and if you,
the World War Two barracks buildings where the club was there,
they had a mezzanine on the second floor and then it's open in the center and
all of these damn fools from the airborne or up on the second floor yelling
Dranamo and jumping off.
And this one kid broke his leg.
And so I've heard about guys breaking their leg and then going on to combat.
But that's another story
from my friend Charlotte.
Plumped what's that?
What about,
oh brother,
we got so many
stories to tell you.
I was on my way to combat on the aircraft carrier.
Kittyhawk we stopped in Hawaii for our last Hoo Rah.
And,
uh,
so we went out and found some pubs and whatnot,
what I had rented a little,
um,
a motor scooter,
you know,
like a little vest spa.
Right.
And cause that's going to work out well.
That's good.
So I'm driving around,
I'm Honolulu and I looked back and when I look forward,
I'm a bore sided on an 18 wheeler.
And so I,
uh,
so,
so I laid that motor scooter on its side and slid underneath the axle of this
truck and pin my right ankle between the frame and the motors,
get her in the truck.
Well,
and so I,
you know,
I,
I came out and dusted myself off.
I'm thinking,
okay,
then I tried to walk,
you know,
I'm not walking very well.
And so I go up to the closest a house and knock on the door and say,
yeah,
you know,
I guess I need a ride to the hospital.
Whenever the Tripler hospital,
big hospital in Hawaii and um,
in the doc,
uh,
there looks at me and he takes an x ray and my leg.
And you know,
it was really funny when you,
when you see an x ray of a broken part of your body,
you know,
you,
you're in disbelief.
You know,
you're like,
wait,
how can this happen?
You know,
you're in denial.
And the guy said,
uh,
okay,
report to a,
uh,
wing,
bravo a floor three.
I said,
what's on Bravo three?
He said,
it's all the other idiots that broke their leg riding motor scooters in Hawaii.
And sure enough,
all these military guys in his military hospital,
I had broken their leg on motor scooters.
And so I said,
I can't do that.
I'm a fighter pilot.
You know,
I just to help start the top gun school,
I gotta,
I gotta get Outta here.
I got to go win the war.
You know,
and,
and I'll never forget this doctor,
his name was Jensen.
Dr. Jensen said,
son,
take my advice.
You can get into war in six months or so after your leg heals.
And so I said,
I can't do that.
I got to go back to the ship.
He's a,
he said she can't ride around on a ship with a broken leg.
I said no,
an aircraft carrier,
we've got hospital as an x ray machines and all this good stone.
We had doctors and surgeons and all this stuff.
Uh,
no,
I can't let you do that.
You know,
we report to all the other characters that broke their legs.
No,
no.
Can't do that.
And so I find,
I am arguing with this doctor who outranked me my about three ranks.
And,
uh,
I said,
tell you what,
let me call the ship.
I'll,
I'll let you talk to our flight surgeon and he can assure you that I'll be okay
by going back to the ship.
Cause I got to go to the war.
I,
so I,
so I called the ship.
Well of course a flight surgeon out getting drunk too.
So he wasn't there.
And in fact,
the only one in sick bay on that ship was,
uh,
was uh,
a corpsman,
uh,
like a third class.
Korman okay.
And he doesn't know what he's doing.
And I say,
okay,
I'm whispering to the guys.
Okay.
Now tell,
tell this doctor or that you're in charge of the hospital and that it's okay for
me to come back.
So sure enough,
you know,
he does what he does a doctor.
So I get a cab and I got this cast on now from my bed,
from my waist all the way up,
down on my toe,
get my big toes.
I mean how I broke my ankle,
you know,
not,
not the rest of my leg,
but I got this 20 pound cast on and so I got to use crutches and I crunch up the
gangway,
you know,
and it's a request permission come on board and the,
the,
the Odi says permission granted and,
and I hobbled my way into a sick bay.
Okay,
here's the same third class.
Korman sitting there and he didn't know what he's doing and he doesn't sign me
in or anything.
He says,
uh,
you know,
go to the officer's quiet room that we got one of those in sick bay.
And so I crushed my way back to the quiet room and I,
I am exhausted.
I'm totally in.
This leg is starting to swell inside the cast and I'm in pain.
And so I just flopped down in this,
in this rack.
And again,
the quiet room.
Well,
the next thing I hear is the engines of the ship starting up.
You know,
we're about to leave now.
Meanwhile,
my squadron buddies,
you know,
and wanting to leave,
no man behind says where's Charlie?
They went back on the beach searching for me for the last place they saw me was
disappearing towards diamond head on a vest buck.
And so they look all over for me and come back and report that I'm a wall.
Okay.
I miss ships movement.
All right.
Okay.
So,
so I wake up [inaudible] I know what's happening.
I,
you know,
I gotta tell somebody I'm here,
nobody knows I'm here.
I mean the third class Corman,
he didn't sign me and he didn't know who I was.
So,
so,
you know,
the squeeze bottles,
in,
in a hospital room and it was supposed to,
uh,
some squeezed on his bottle trying to attract a nurse or something,
you know,
in there,
squeeze,
squeeze.
And I finally looked up and the hose from the bottle was cut.
I would just squeeze in air.
So I get my crutch out,
which is the only thing I can move.
I mean,
I'm paralyzed and I'm banging on the hatch,
you know?
And I finally attract attention to this sailor and to say,
you'd better go up to the ready room and squadron one 14 then you better tell
him up there.
Then I'm down here.
Well it wasn't probably two minutes later.
And the commanding officer standing in the doorway,
all right,
and he is not unhappy.
He said,
I've had 17 pilots.
and now I got 16 he said,
he said,
first of all,
what are they telling you?
When are you going to be ready to fly again?
I said,
six weeks.
Well,
I,
you know,
weeks,
months.
I kind of got that confused.
And he said,
you're going home.
I'm going to get a pilot view.
Oh No,
please,
please let me stay.
I'm gonna stay with the squadron and I got to be with the troops,
you know,
please.
And so now you're going home.
Ah,
please be.
I said,
okay,
a skipper,
what if I,
uh,
you need,
you need a pilot from the squadron to run the,
the maintenance on a
cubi point in Philippines,
you know,
a pilot stand behind it for battle damage and stuff.
You know,
I'll take care and I'll run those troops and for,
yeah,
I can do that on a crutch.
And so he said,
okay,
so he let me,
he let me off on at and the Philippines and where all the rest of the squadron,
you know,
when the door,
the first line period,
uh,
they went out there and I'm crunching my way around the Philippines,
with,
uh,
you know,
I had,
I had probably six or eight chiefs and a hundred,
uh,
mechanics,
you know,
working on these airplanes.
Well,
so they would send these airplanes back to me,
but I didn't have any way to test them.
Uh,
but the,
the army,
a trip or hospital had not taken my wing,
so they,
they,
they've not given me a,
a down shit.
So I told me I couldn't fly.
Why,
you know,
so I talked to doctor there at Subic Bay to put on a walking cast.
Okay.
So I've got a little cast.
And so,
uh,
I can,
you know,
I'm qualified to test these airplanes.
I can do this.
And so the problem was,
first of all,
I couldn't get into the airplane because my cats was too big to go into,
to the toe hole.
And so I'd have my crew,
um,
fork lift me up and into the airplane.
My second problem was I couldn't use my right foot to push the right rudder.
And this is,
uh,
this is kind of a nose wheel steering the airplane in the Air Force where you
gotta be able to push the rudder to steer.
So I would,
I'd go out and test these airplanes and I come back and land at a,
at cubi point and the Philippines,
and instead of making the,
they'd say,
okay,
you're cleared righthand turn,
couldn't make a right hand turn.
I made three lefthand turns to get off.
So the fuck the squadron finally came back and I got back with them,
got my little cast off,
and I started flying missions.
But until the day I was shot down,
I was still limping on that ankle and I was really afraid with a diet in the
prison camp,
but that was never going to heal.
But uh,
you know,
as,
as luck and fate would have it,
it healed up fine.
And so,
you know,
but yeah,
that,
that's my story of,
of,
of getting breaking my leg on the way to combat,
you know.
Thanks for bringing that up Jim.
Uh,
yeah.
Let's,
let's do,
we're talking about,
now we're talking about getting shot down.
Do you know your ended up in a prison camp?
Let's,
you were about to get to the,
to the,
to the engagement where you actually did get shot down.
You want to talk through that one a little bit further,
Jim,
and just
give us some details on that.
Well,
sure.
Um,
some of the
details,
um,
uh,
are not original,
but,
uh,
back to the,
the Purple Heart Corner,
uh,
you spot them coming in again.
And this time there were two different gaggles that I could see in the gaggle is
a word that we use for the Germans because they didn't fly a real tight
formation.
They kind of,
they were just there was that,
was that intentional?
Yes.
It must've been because they were,
you know,
the German pilots,
a sharp bottling.
Yeah.
But,
um,
I would guess,
you know,
especially in Germans are generally orderly people,
so you'd think they'd want it fly tight formations.
But I guess if you think about it from a,
from like even from a basic camouflage perspective,
when you see things in a pattern,
it stands out more.
So maybe they did that to break up their pattern a little bit.
Well,
I would assume,
well,
because they were very effective.
And um,
you know,
some of these boys you we'd run into where he'd been at it for a long time,
but as I saw them coming in and referred to them,
as I said,
it's a gaggle.
Uh,
I picked the one closest and broke into it and made the call that I was making
the break and broke.
And just as I broke,
somebody's got a shot at me and I got hit back in the after part of the fuselage
and I follow,
had a little fire going and I'm sure I did.
But,
um,
as I made my first pass through them,
I've lined up and if you could get the peak 38 no's on a target,
those four 50s and that 20 millimeter were devastating and so many rounds of 50
cow would you have?
We usually carry 400 rounds per gun and 130 rounds of,
uh,
20 millimeter.
And we arranged our,
um,
uh,
our triggers so that we,
we wanted to fire them all at the same time.
We didn't carry any tracer.
We put five tracers in at about 25 rounds remaining so that you knew you were,
you had to have something to go home on that right.
Start conserving your ammunition.
And so I got a line on a clear shot fired at him,
but I don't,
I didn't know what the results were because all of a sudden I'm in the middle of
us of a firestorm.
Uh,
a literal firestorm inside your cabinet,
inside your cockpit?
No.
Or just still outside?
It's outside the crowd.
There were,
there were a lots of targets and apparently I went through them,
uh,
really
this late date,
uh,
my story,
that's how much I really remember about this.
Uh,
I heard stories later,
which I'll get to,
but,
uh,
it seemed like it went on forever.
And,
uh,
finally,
I'm on the tail of a one night.
He,
I saw,
I saw some,
I knew I was involved with one nineties,
but I saw a couple of one online,
someplace in my peripheral vision solar.
There were other aircraft involved and they're all,
apparently they're all with me.
I didn't know it at the time,
but,
um,
uh,
we made a number of passes.
I was very concerned about the of ammunition.
If you hold it far buttoned down,
you're going to be out in about 20 seconds.
So I was very concerned about using all my ammunition,
so I was trying to fire very short bursts and,
um,
we go round and round and we're Jo,
uh,
Jojo hang up and down and,
and uh,
uh,
I've got on the tail of a one 90,
again,
I'm right up on top of them.
Uh,
and the p 38 through your gun site,
you could also see your two top 50s.
Uh,
and it looked like I had those two fifties right around the rudder post and this
one 90 and out of the corner of my eye,
I see these flashes out on my wing tip and they're coming up the wing tip and
getting closer and closer.
And this is the middle o seconds.
And he hit me right in,
in by the,
the left engine.
And,
um,
we had an air,
uh,
air scoop that came in through the leading edge of the wing and the end of the
cockpit by your left knee,
which is our only cold air into the p 38.
And again,
I see this peripheral vision.
I'm concentrating on the guy in front of me.
Uh,
I see this air vent making like a blowtorch.
And so this is not good.
And again,
uh,
my next memory is I'm out,
fallen through a cloud.
I don't remember.
Our emergency reliefs was above us.
P 38 had actually had windows and you crank them up on both sides and the only
way you could get them down is to hit the little release and then crank them
down.
And so we had a top hatch,
which was our escape hatch,
which was about this wide,
and you have a backpack shoot and all your equipment.
And I,
um,
uh,
I don't know why,
I don't remember releasing any pay or pulling the,
uh,
the safety belt there,
the shoulder harnesses.
Uh,
but this is unlike,
you know,
Charlie,
you're,
you know,
the modern rigs where you pull the ejection handle and you,
this is all stuff,
I mean,
in a modern aircraft,
you pull the objection handle and you're getting shot out of the aircraft all
automatic.
That's all.
That's all you do.
We didn't have to think about anything.
We weren't smart as these guys were yet.
And so,
so,
so this was all stuff you manually had to do.
Unbuckle yourself,
get an open up the hatch or the window and,
and get all that done while the plane is burning and,
and then you have to get out.
And that's kind of when you come back into consciousness.
So you did that either instinctively or,
or at some point while all this mayhem was going on?
I'll try.
I don't,
as I say,
I don't remember even reaching up above for the,
to pull the top hatch.
Um,
all I was just,
I'll float down through a client knew the clouds for around five pounds and feet
because we'd been Jojo and up and down during this time.
And also just one more point on a ejection sheet,
a modern ejection seat,
you come out,
your parachute opens automatically,
right?
So you're,
you're still in a rip cord scenario,
right,
where you're going to have to make this parachute open.
So when you say,
when you say you're floating down,
you're actually falling down at 120 miles per hour towards the earth.
Somewhat like that.
Oh,
anyway,
I come out the bottom of a clown and I'm facing up and I thought,
well,
I'd better turn over.
I turned over,
then I can remember distinctly watching the ground and I thought I was behind
German lines because we were locked in Germany.
And,
uh,
he just knew that I was,
and we were east of Walkin and I knew were approximately where this fight
started.
And I didn't think it has gotten any better about going west.
So I figured we were,
we were over territory.
And so,
uh,
we,
um,
we have been told to not pull your ripcord that altitude,
get down.
It was Europe.
You're a lot less of a target lower you can get.
So I rolled over and Phil actually just fell face down and watched the ground
come up when it looks like it was pretty close.
I pulled the rip cord.
This is your first time parachuting or did,
did,
did you guys do any parachuting in preparation for this?
No.
Okay.
Um,
yeah,
that's interesting having,
having jumped out at least a number of airplanes.
This is not something you want to do for the first time
anywhere.
Rip Cord work.
I remember thinking,
well you know,
I gotta be ready to move when I get down.
So I unbuckled the two lower straps on the shoot and I got him on buckle and I
had a 45 in a shoulder holster.
I got the 45 out and I'm trying to cock it.
You get around in the chamber and I dropped it.
I didn't realize my hands were burned and so I'm not sure how I got the shoot
particles off.
And so I must've been pretty low when I pulled the rip cord because just
instantaneous.
There's,
I came down,
you know,
red brick building and it had a courtyard in a tree in the middle of the
courtyard.
And I could,
if I could find the building,
I'd recognize it today in my shoot caught in this little tree and I jerked to a
stop the non probably six inches off off the deck.
And I remember doing that,
but then I don't remember,
uh,
were uh,
period.
Uh,
and I,
I kept thinking it's getting dark now.
I thought [inaudible] I haven't,
you know,
where have I been?
And,
uh,
I'm going down what?
I was like a little hedge row and I had my 45 and I saw these guys down in this
ditch.
Uh,
boy,
I thought there were German and I saw the head net on their helmet and our guys
have netting on the helmet now.
I threw my hands up and through the 45 over my shoulder,
never saw it again.
But,
um,
it was the first infantry division and they had seen my shoot and I came down
between the German positions and first infantry division.
Wow.
And what had happened,
and I found this all later,
they,
uh,
first infantry we were trying to take Ochin,
you know,
we started,
this is mid September to try to take off and we didn't get a locked in until
early November where we actually took the town and the first infantry had pushed
up,
throw it on the night of the 15th.
It pushed up and taking this little area,
uh,
where I came down,
it was a little town called Ellen Dorr,
which was a suburb of Boston and they were having trouble holding it.
And so they were getting ready to pull back and they saw my shoot and they guys
came out and picked me up,
took me to Oh,
oh,
back hospital.
But before they did that,
they took me in and I'm into an area and up here I was in the command post and I
met a full colonel and I found out later who he was.
He was the commander of the 16th Infantry Regiment and he,
he said,
he asked me if you want to dinner.
And I said,
well,
I don't know what I said.
Anyway,
I apparently sat down and had dinner with him right with him.
And,
um,
I do remember going outside this area and throwing up,
so I knew like I had eaten something,
but,
uh,
they put me on,
two and a half ton truck and where they put the,
uh,
the stretchers,
they put them in between the,
what are the side gates and I,
there was some Germans in there and some Americans and me,
and they hauled us back.
Narco.
They took me to,
what I found out later,
it was the 45th evac hospital and they treated me there.
But,
uh,
I right at that moment,
I don't remember too much about all the scoring on,
except I thought it was getting dark.
So I thought I'd been on the ground for quite a while.
And I found out later that my eyes were,
had been pretty flash burns on my face and hands and everything.
And I w I couldn't see for a couple of days.
So apparently I was having,
my eyes were swollen shut or something.
And,
um,
I just think it's getting dark.
But,
um,
they hauled the end of the,
the,
uh,
the hospital and I was very fortunate they had a doctor there who,
um,
either had developed or was using a new technique on burns and they took me in
the operating room and it was colder than hell and I'm vibrating like blazes and
they start picking like this and a kindness to the drive me crazy.
And what once they developed this new technique where they picked all the burn
areas out to get it off of there.
So you heal from,
from the inside out.
And it's,
I went back through the,
the hospital system.
Uh,
they'd used me as a demonstration to these kids that have been caught in tanks
and badly burned,
much worse than I was.
And they were telling him that,
look what we did here,
look how quickly he's healing,
meeting me,
uh,
using this technique.
And so apparently I was one of the very first that they'd ever used a song.
But when,
um,
we,
uh,
we were putting on this train,
the hospital train and taken to the American hospital in Paris and they haul me
in there and this guy comes up to him and he says,
hell,
I know you.
Um,
you said if we picked you up.
And His name was Walter Leonard Scott.
He was a,
a a with the first infantry division company c and he was a second lieutenant
and he became my friend.
He stayed with me for quite a while and he had witnessed almost all of us
operation as we yoyo around the area.
Why he was seeing a good part.
And then he told me a lot about what happened.
They,
they told me that they estimated there were 20,
28 enemy aircraft and that somehow or other,
that story has stuck
with,
um,
with my store.
I don't,
I don't know what they were.
I mean,
uh,
he,
um,
uh,
he actually
was where I got most of my information about what had gone on.
So we,
um,
we went through the hospital chain and,
you know,
was he in the hospital for something?
He'd,
he been injured as well.
He,
we get the England and he's telling me a little bit about,
uh,
infantry life.
And he had landed with the first infantry division in North Africa.
He went all through North Africa and went to Sicily and he had been very badly
wounded in Sicily.
And they,
um,
he and another officer had a manned Anana tank gun
in some big operation in Sicily.
And the two of them,
uh,
stayed with this ama tank on when everybody else had departed.
And anyway,
he had received a distinguished service cross and that was the first time I ever
heard the term distinguished service cross.
And so now I'm starting,
he started in 42 and he,
uh,
went through north after he went to Sicily.
You went to England,
he made d day.
And
I said,
well,
how come you're still a second lieutenant?
We hadn't been in w we were sent to England.
They,
they took us to the Nepali hospital,
which was this gigantic hospital right outside of Southampton that had been
built in the board.
Wharves something like that.
Big,
looked like a castle.
And so we hadn't been in there two hours in this cute little nurse shows up with
a class,
a uniform for Leonard Scott.
And Scott was gone.
I mean,
we didn't see him for 10 days.
So I figured Leonard Scott was probably a person who tended four or five times.
It sounds like from the cute nurse,
it might have been worth it.
But,
uh,
you know,
we,
we were quite close.
We're just a few weeks and for years and years and years,
I tried to find Leonard Scott.
I knew that he made it through the war.
I knew that he'd gotten off separated from active duty and at Fort Lewis,
and he was from the Dalles,
Oregon.
And I tried to find him.
And about a year ago,
my wife sit down at the computer and in a matter of a couple hours,
she finds his to see his two daughters and he had passed.
He had gone through Korea.
He went back on active duty,
went to Korea.
He was,
yeah,
this distinguished service cross.
He had the purple heart was seven clusters and he had been hit.
He said he made the DD landing and in 20 minutes he was on,
um,
uh,
landing craft on his way back to England.
He had gotten hit that quickly.
And then he,
the day after I was shot down,
he got hit again and he went back after we separated,
he went back to the First Infantry Division company C.
And it's funny,
hmm.
Uh,
coming up to more recent times,
uh,
I built a number of,
I,
I used to build,
we're still build airport facilities,
but I used to build air,
cargo buildings and so forth and Leeson to the airlines.
And I did a lot of work with flying tigers.
And I knew Bob Prescott pretty well.
Who was the president of Tigers and,
uh,
Wayne Hoffman,
who was the chairman of the board of the tiger.
So tell us a little bit about the flying tigers.
If people don't know,
uh,
the flying tigers to the narrow line,
cargo airline that was sold to federal express,
who's now part of Federal Express and was
named,
uh,
because Bob Prescott,
he was president of Tigers,
had flown with the Flying Tiger Organization in China,
one of the original applying tigers.
And at right after the war,
he started a little airline and called the flying tigers and it became a
gigantic air cargo facility and they were flying all over the world.
And so I started building facilities and leasing to them.
And so the new Bob and knew Wayne Hoffman real well,
and I knew that Wayne Hoffman had been,
uh,
in the army and been a,
in the infantry,
but that's,
and we never talked about him.
And Wayne's wife,
uh,
wrote a book and she took all of wanes letters that he had written home from
Europe during the war and put them in this book.
And so they gave me a book and I read it and I come to September 16th.
Uh,
Wayne Hoffman is in Ellen Dorf,
Germany in the first part of the Siegfried line,
uh,
five o'clock in the evening in his letter to his wife,
he said in very short letter,
he said,
um,
in Ellen door.
And there was an Arab while going on above us and we get talking.
And that was me in here.
We'd been friends for
a number of years and we never really talked about it.
And he was a company d or The 16th regiment and hundred.
Scott was the sea of the 16th Regiment and we never put all this together.
That's so it's amazing what comes out.
And I found out that,
um,
uh,
two of the people that are on the German side that I've been involved with the,
occur,
uh,
Major Boris,
they,
this is a long story.
I don't know how far you want to go with we go as long as you want to talk.
They,
um,
uh,
Major Boris,
a lot of go back and step.
I heard from a gentleman in Holland and they had some information about my
airplane.
And this gentleman,
uh,
had written several big historical books and he lived in,
um,
in that little area where Belgium and Holland and Germany all come together and
he had found like 500 rex aircraft wrecks in area
and pricing down and,
and history and,
and the,
um,
uh,
recorded it and they came up with a piece 38 in a Elmendorf,
Germany.
And so they figured out and found it was my airplane and they found it in 1997.
And so anyway,
in the series of steps I get and they get in contact with me and he had studied
that,
but air,
air warfare in that area and was writing another book about that.
And he saw you wanted to talk to me about it and we did.
But unfortunately he passed away.
But,
uh,
very early he was young man.
And so I,
I never got a sewer neuro from the record.
My airplane is there someplace waiting for me to it and find it.
But he told me that he had,
he came up with two names,
that he had read this book by Caldwell,
who's a story called the the,
uh,
war diary of Jg 26.
The yellow knows Abby bull boys.
Yolande knows,
uh,
aircraft and um,
they,
uh,
he had written on September 16th,
he had this story about attacking the Three v three 70th group and the Germans
claimed four p 38 had been shot down and that wasn't true.
I was the only one that lost.
They actually attack the group after my engagement with them.
They finally got their act together,
I guess in the TAC,
the group and didn't do too well,
but like 20 minutes,
30 minutes later,
whatever the time of them.
But he figured out that one of two people had shot me down.
One fellow was,
was,
uh,
major,
Boris Major.
Boris had shot down.
His first victory was a,
in 1939,
he shot down the Spitfire.
Uh,
he had,
if he got me,
I was his 42nd victory.
The other guy was a no follow by the name of Keith me a lot.
And,
uh,
he,
if he got me,
I would have been his 82nd.
So these guys were not beginners.
And so all this information's dribbling in over the last 60 years.
So by the time I find out about Boris and in the loop Wapa,
uh,
they're,
they've died.
So I've never got a chance to talk with them.
But through,
we've found,
Scott's
daughter is a very famous,
a interior decorator in San Francisco.
And so we're going to get together with her.
And she said that her father passed away at a very early age.
I think he was in these fifties.
But so all of this keeps coming in.
We keep hearing more and more.
You find something old accidentally.
He,
uh,
beyond earth to
interesting.
His story's there again,
but you haven't told us about the nurse,
um,
helping you with your clothes.
Oh,
the nurse,
this is a g rated podcast most of the time,
either a,
uh,
echo can bleep it,
some of it out there were some lovely nurses and I think we all know what to
happen.
They were,
you know,
they were so wonderful.
I mean,
gels were just unbelievable how they took care of him.
No,
it's actually,
I,
you know,
we've read some books on the podcast where there was nurses that were over in
France and they were receiving guys right off the front lines.
Yeah.
Well they,
they had me on
this 45th and I wake up and I'm hearing all of this big bang and going on will
the boarded fifth hospitals here and there's a right behind it here.
There's a a hundred and fifth 105,
a artillery firing over the little.
And they took me to,
and from there I went to,
um,
uh,
the hospital or the General Hospital in,
in brought in Brussels,
no,
not process where the old man mastery.
And uh,
I left there one day and then the next day after I left a B,
a,
B one,
a rocket docket,
flew right into the side of the hospital.
And I have pictures of it that I took.
And this is later my second tour through the hospital,
which is another story.
But,
um,
uh,
so that,
that was a big tragedy,
but he killed a number of the people and it's one of the wards.
So in those,
those were the nurses that I knew,
but
how long did it take you to recover and he,
did you fly again or was that,
was being shot down and wounded was at the end of the war for you?
No.
Well,
it was in combat really.
Um,
uh,
I went through the hospital chain and,
it was released in England,
went back,
I going through Paris
and,
um,
uh,
you know,
when the hospitals would collect the uniform died,
they took all my flying jacket and everything was burned from a wreck.
So it's,
they strip you down,
throw it all away.
And so now I'm in a hospital and an England and they're gonna release me and I'm
going back to my squad renumbering to fly.
This is in November,
you know,
and uh,
my burns,
it healed pretty well.
So they give me a uniform due to wear.
And I don't know how many guys were,
how many times is sky,
whoever's uniform it was,
it had been hit,
but there was a whole,
sure,
a bunch of holes in it.
And I found a hat.
And so I had no money.
And so I'm,
I'm freaking my way back.
I went to London and then I got a flight to Paris and I got to Paris.
And so I decided,
well,
I'm in Paris and I'm on my way back to the squadron.
Uh,
I'm going to see something.
So I went down to the Lido club and,
um,
I used to like,
oh,
I still like to dance,
but I like swimming.
And so I'm in the Lido club and,
and they have this pretty little gal singing,
uh,
some French tunes.
And then they want to,
they ask you a few people if they wanted to do a little Gera bug.
So we,
uh,
we had quite a night.
And so I left early in figuring out where I'm going to sleep and I'm walking
down the avenue and here comes a gaggle again of,
of,
uh,
guys were pink pinks on.
And the,
the green jerseys and everything.
Damn,
here comes my battle jacket,
my pants,
these are all friends of mine.
There were in my cohort
there were staying at the Claridge hotel right next to the Lido Cologne.
So all of a sudden I'm better dressed.
I borrowed some money in and we enjoyed Paris.
And then did you get back to the squadron?
Went back to the squadron with them and they have transportation.
So I went back with them and I'm there for cal.
I've walked in and everybody's glad to see me.
And,
and um,
let's say cow,
we just got a brand new p 38 in fright from Ireland.
Just came through and it's yours and it,
boy,
it was a beauty.
So I'm all ready to start flying again.
And Doc Berg,
who was our plight,
comes to me and he says,
Jimmy says,
I don't like the way you're walking.
And I said,
well,
I'm just a little bit sore,
but everything's fine.
And he said,
well,
we're going over.
We were at a 70 or a 78 at that time.
I'm Florence Belgium.
He says,
we'll go over to the [inaudible] and just check you out.
And so I go over to the hospital and shallow out with him and the next till you
knew I got a cast from here down to my rear end and they x rayed me and,
and I had a broken back that they hadn't treated so,
uh,
back to the hospital.
And so we do,
I went through that,
went back to the third military,
uh,
well they had them.
What they did is they had a central medical section and they run all the pilots
through there and then they would determine what happens to you.
And so I kept saying,
well,
I want to go back to the squadron.
And so they said,
well,
okay,
we're going to,
you got your cast.
And then they took the big cast off and put a small and on and said,
we're going to send you to England for at least 30 days through a flat house.
We'll flack houses where they run by the,
uh,
Red Cross and mainly were for bomber crews.
The bomber crew had,
we're getting a little nervous or something,
they'd send them down for a week or so.
And so they sent me to this black cows and the first thing I get in trouble with
with the Red Cross is just fighter pilots like to talk about combat and flying.
The bomber guys didn't want to have anything to do with that kind of
conversation.
So the Red Cross gets upset with me and they told me I got to keep my mouth
shut.
And I said,
well fine,
I'll keep my mouth shut but I'm going to do this.
Give me a set of borders and all go off to some base cause I'm,
I can walk.
So I'd,
I had a little plan used to be get your flying time,
your pay.
He had to fly four hours a month.
So I would have,
I'd write a set of orders and said,
I,
I'll just temporary duty and I want four hours flying time.
So I go off to some base and with,
with a small cast on and uh,
uh,
I'd say I'd walk in and say,
here's my orders.
I need four hours flying time.
So they'd arranged and I fly for four hours and,
and go back to the flack house.
And a couple of days later I had rights and more orders and go some place else.
So I got deployed a number of aircraft while I was there.
And so pretty soon my 30 days are
over.
I go back to third mental medical and they send me back to the squadron.
And [inaudible] was not happy to see me at all.
And at that time I got orders to report to general spotted corridors and in
Paris and he said,
um,
they didn't tell me what I was going down there for.
And some Colonel Kim,
uh,
came to the squadron.
He's also assigned on this same deal,
same several orders.
And so we'd go down to Paris together and uh,
his name was in Galito and he ended up,
uh,
two or three star general and he had declarations from his neck down to his
waist already.
And so,
uh,
I get down to Paris and I'm going to get the distinguished service cross.
Well outside of,
um,
Leonard Scott,
we never really told me what the distinguished service costs was.
I wasn't sure what we were about to get.
And,
um,
anyway,
we,
we got that and went back to the squadron are again thinking everything at least
is pretty close to right.
And Berg says you're going home.
And so that was the end of that.
Except I'm grounded and that's why I'm going home.
I'm grounded and so I hadn't,
I had all these records with me and you know,
we officers then I suppose they still do.
You carried your own records with you?
So I'm going home grounded.
I got my records.
Well,
I still have those records and they were in a foot locker down in my hang or
nobody else ever caught him.
Yeah.
Um,
I got home and took a medical and passed it.
And so I'm back on flying duty.
The war's still on.
Uh,
it looks like we could,
might be,
uh,
going out to the Pacific to make the invasions is van.
I'm applying the latest peep,
51 51 h,
uh,
got married and,
with my childhood sweetheart,
who I met when she was 15,
and everything is right in the world.
And in Harry Truman dropped the bomb and ruined a perfectly good one.
So
was
sister
Bobbie and I stayed until 1948.
And I got to play our first jets and had a wonderful time.
We had a wonderful experience,
learned a heck of a lot,
got to do things that would've never happened to me,
and if we hadn't had gotten involved in all of this,
so worked out
great.
And so how did you two end up a meeting?
Well,
I had this old antique airplane and,
uh,
I was looking for a hanger for this airplane and uh,
and Jim was building hangers at the time and this little little bitty airport up
in the valley above Santa Barbara called Santa Ynez.
And he helped me build a hangar.
And,
uh,
it,
it was kind of interesting,
the attraction.
And in fact,
my wife brought this up.
He said,
she said,
you know,
you're going to have three generations of warriors talking on these telephones.
I mean,
today on this podcast,
uh,
you get Jim Konkol on 30 years later,
you've got Charlie pump,
30 years later you got Jocko Jocko Willink.
He said on it,
there's,
there's there an attraction with warriors.
I don't know what it is with our brains,
you know,
but there's some kind of a kind of a magnetism or something and you just kinda
identify with other guys that have been in combat.
And so even though they're,
I don't know,
there are probably a hundred pilots on this airport in June.
And I kind of hit it off without even knowing our history.
Uh,
and the more we get to know each other,
this is like 20 years ago,
the more we got to know each other,
the more,
uh,
similar philosophies of life,
you know,
we had.
And,
uh,
and so it's not just our flying because Jim still flies.
Of course I still fly.
And,
uh,
and of course I've got an old antique airplane that,
from his training days,
uh,
and,
but more than that,
the technology has changed that the enemy has changed,
uh,
from World War II to Vietnam to Iraq,
you know,
that,
but the,
but the camaraderie of military guys,
you know,
they're just something and,
and a lot of stuff that you talk about Jocko,
uh,
in your podcast and then your books,
just the,
you know,
the fact that we're all accountable.
We are responsible not just for our lives,
but for our buddies.
And there's something about that,
that community of warriors,
uh,
that,
that really connects.
So that's how Jim and I got started.
The,
built the hanger for me and I moved in,
my wife made a,
a man cave out of it.
And so,
uh,
I mean that,
that's,
we are,
we're,
we're sitting here doing this.
Yeah,
that was,
we,
we joked about that on the first time you were on the podcast that,
that you had the ultimate man cave.
And,
you know,
I kind of threw that out there,
but now that I've been here,
it is actually factually true that you do have the ultimate man cave.
And,
uh,
I'm going to take a gulp and take a bunch of pictures.
Maybe we can do a video,
like a little tour of it and just show everyone kind of what this is all about.
And,
and all the,
I mean the,
the history that you have here and the pictures and the photographs and,
and the,
you know,
pieces of aircraft and everything else is,
it's,
it's phenomenal.
The look at,
and you know,
it was interesting.
So when I got here,
um,
you know,
you,
you were walking around and in gyms,
hangers,
a few hangers down and you know,
you said,
hey,
Jim wants to show you something.
And I said,
oh,
well,
you know,
okay.
You know,
I didn't really have any idea what it was.
So we,
we get out and we walked from your hanger and we're walking down towards Jim
Jim's hangar and you know,
we shake hands and meet and meet Jim for the first time.
And he says,
you know,
I want to show you something.
And I say,
Oh,
okay,
you know,
neat.
And he goes,
it's a picture.
And I said,
oh awesome.
And I've no idea what to expect.
And he says,
it's someone you know.
And I said,
okay,
well that narrows it down.
But I don't know.
I don't know who I have in common,
you know,
with GM or I don't know.
I've been no idea.
And no idea who this was over this picture was going to be.
So we go to gyms man-cave,
which is an each equally impressive and awesome,
you know,
hangar with,
his personal effects and pictures and models and parts of aircraft and
everything else.
And he walks into a corner and,
and he picks up a picture and he hands me this picture and the picture,
I immediately,
I know who it is and it's,
it's this second lieutenant from the Marine Corps.
It's a picture of a young Chinese American second lieutenant from the Marine
Corps.
And it,
it's,
it's Kurt Lee who I talked about in podcast number 53 colder than hell.
And I went kind of off about him a little bit.
I talked about him a lot because if you remember from this particular podcast
and from that particular book,
this was at the chosen reservoir and,
and this second lieutenant currently,
he was,
while these guys are engaged in,
in just intense continuous combat,
in order to lead his men,
he fashioned a,
a fluorescent orange vest out of some signaling material.
And,
or out of some parachute material or something,
he made this vest for himself so that he would be completely visible to all of
his men.
Now that also means he's obviously completely visible to the enemy as well.
But that was what kind of a leader that this guy was.
He,
look,
I'm going to take extra risk,
but,
um,
we're,
we're gonna make this happen.
I'm in charge of going to know where,
where I am and you can follow me through whatever.
And it's an incredible story of,
of heroism.
So that's the picture that Jim puts in front of me is this picture of,
of currently,
and I'm,
I kind of look at him and I,
you know,
and,
and it turns out that you,
that you knew curtly
Kirk was a good friend,
a dear friend,
quite a store,
and I have tremendous for
him,
I have tremendous respect for his principles to the last day of the,
before he died.
And,
uh,
fond memories.
Yeah,
it was,
it's an interesting story too,
because that's another thing that we talked about,
wasn't part of that what he did at one point in that book,
and I don't remember it specifically,
but he basically dresses someone down in the middle of a firefight for not
giving him,
you're not calling him Sir or not calling them lieutenant.
And,
you know,
I'm just kind of saying,
hey guys,
you know,
you need to think about when the right time to do this is.
But as you said,
he was an extremely principled person and kept those principles at all times.
Well,
you know,
he,
um,
he led the group of Marines,
uh,
through the night to relieve Fox company,
which is quite a well known story in the Marine Corps.
Uh,
poker company was holding a hill that commanded the escape route for the whole,
the chosen reservoir group,
army,
uh,
marine corps,
and they,
they were under heavy attack.
The idea was to get down and support them and currently I could speak three or
four different dialects of Chinese.
And so he's leading these,
he's of the scout who was actually leading the whole contingent of marines
through the night through heavy snow,
uh,
terrible,
terrible conditions.
And actually as a came across a Chinese centuries,
troops,
he would talk to them in Chinese and they got the whole,
the whole contingent got through.
And uh,
uh,
they made it in time.
They relieve Fox company a tremendous story.
Yeah,
it is unbelievable story and unbelievable that you handed that picture to me
and,
and that you knew him.
I mean,
that's just this phenomenal,
phenomenal situation.
Um,
was there anything,
Charlie,
that when,
when you were on last time,
was there anything that,
you know,
I know we,
we talked for a few hours,
I think.
Yeah.
Was there any major things that as you listen to it again,
that you said to yourself,
you know what,
I should,
I should talk about this as well.
Not that nothing,
which,
uh,
specifically comes to mind.
Uh,
but now that you know that the three,
uh,
warriors are here together,
and I think we should talk a little bit about philosophies of combat and,
and the fears that we faced.
A,
because I think,
you know,
to the general public,
the vast majority of your listeners and viewers,
uh,
are not in the military.
Uh,
and so,
you know,
my,
my thought is,
well,
how do they relate?
Oh,
it's interesting.
History.
You know,
I love history of the greater generation and,
uh,
I love your history as well,
and the things that are going on.
Uh,
you know,
today that the guys at the point of the spear,
but what does that mean to the,
you know,
to the average guy,
uh,
who,
who's never been in the military.
There's some principles I believe that the three of us learned in combat that
can,
that's transferable I think to,
to all challenges of life.
You know,
that just,
you know,
the fact that you face your fears,
you step into the,
into the box and,
and Jim bid it and you've done it where you could have run the other way.
You know,
you,
you could have quit a,
you could have checked out,
but you know,
I mean,
all,
all three of us felt like that we had a duty,
a duty to our country,
duty to our brotherhood.
Uh,
and so we,
you know,
picked up the,
picked up the baton and,
and continued on.
Um,
and so,
uh,
you know,
to me that's sort of the important part,
the part that you can,
you can transfer more than just the military history that we all have.
The,
the philosophy of meeting challenges because I'm convinced,
you know,
you can,
you can be in just as much of a,
have a challenge in your life.
You don't,
you don't have to be flying.
Jet Airplanes are running around his seal teams.
Uh,
you can face challenges when a person is diagnosed with cancer or loses a child
or for that matter gets cut out of your lane on the freeway.
Uh,
you have a choice and a,
and the choice that you make,
it certainly depends on not only your character,
but then it also transmit into the outcome of the character that you continue to
be in life.
And so while we're,
you know,
30,
60 years apart in our,
in our generations here,
our philosophies of life and the warrior,
a psyche,
uh,
continues.
And so,
uh,
I'm just really,
really proud to be a part of this and proud to be,
uh,
with you Jocko.
And of course with you,
Jim,
Jim and I see each other probably couple times a month.
We get together,
we have dinner or wives,
you know,
Cook good meals,
and we'd go fly sometimes.
And,
uh,
and there's a certain silent language,
I think,
between us,
uh,
that we don't even have to talk to each other.
Uh,
and yet we understand what,
what's going on.
You know,
we're where we're coming from in the,
the accountability that,
that we share.
Uh,
just because of the experiences that we've had.
I got asked the question the other day,
I was working with a company.
I was actually,
no,
it was in a cohort with a company.
I was doing a speech and I was doing some Q and a at the end.
And a guy asked me,
how do you define
character and how do you build it?
And I'd actually never been asked this question before.
And quite frankly,
I hadn't really thought about it very much.
And,
and this guy had thought about it and I talked to him afterwards and it was
something that he was,
why he really wanted to hear me talk,
because he wanted to get my perspective on this.
And I answered the question like this.
I said,
you know,
for me,
character is not a very complex thing for me.
Character is you do what's right.
You do what's right,
you do the right thing.
That's what you do,
and if you do the right thing,
regardless of what the consequences are,
that that represents character.
And so then how do you build character?
It's a beautiful thing because it's the same thing.
If you want to build character,
you do the right thing.
You do the right thing for yourself.
You do the right thing for your family.
You do the right thing for your,
the people that you know.
You do the right thing for your community.
You do the right thing for your country.
That's what you do.
And now on an individual level,
those things are hard things often,
right?
If those are hard things,
you have to make the right decisions.
You have to live a disciplined life.
Those build character,
those little things that you do on a daily basis to make yourself better,
to improve your health,
to improve your,
your situation in life.
You're doing those things.
They're hard to do.
And when you do those things,
they build your character and ultimately they lead to your,
your your character.
Being a good character as opposed to a bad one.
But I'd never been asked that question before.
And I thought that the simplicity of it is pretty clear when you think about it.
You know,
when you think about the people that you know,
you don't know.
When I think about the,
the people that I worked for in the military or that work for me up or down the
chain of command,
what,
what is it that made them people that,
cause you know there's bad care,
you know,
we can't sit here and pretend like everybody of that just because you did in the
military,
you've got great character.
That's absolutely not true.
But what about those people?
And I,
you know,
I thought through this and in three seconds as this guy asked me this question,
I thought to myself,
well,
what about the guys that I know that have good character that I look to and say,
yeah,
this,
this person I trust,
you know,
without question,
what kind of person is that?
That's the person that you know is going to do the right thing all the time,
regardless of the consequences.
Couple of things about that.
First of all,
it isn't easy.
In fact,
usually the right thing is the toughest thing.
You know,
it,
it's the,
it's the hard decision.
The second thing is it doesn't always turn out for the best.
We need to do the right thing.
Lots of times we stumble,
you know,
and,
and your listeners may think that the three of us,
you know,
have always,
uh,
you know,
been on the top of the heap,
but all three of us have fallen short.
You know,
I mean,
uh,
I'll tell you this,
a
languishing in prison camp,
the first,
the first month in that prison camp,
I laid there in,
in,
in blood and sweat and tears and,
uh,
and,
and my mental state was just in the tank because I'd given up fighter pilots and
not supposed to give up.
Jim and I weren't trained to surrender and,
and my,
my mental,
the depression that I had just because of that.
And I think that largely in life,
you know,
when you do do the right thing and it doesn't turn out right,
then you have to get up,
dust yourself off,
get back in the back in this,
in the fray.
And that's tough to do.
You know,
the last thing you want to do when,
when,
when you're getting beat up every from every side and you'd really want to quit,
the last thing you want to do is to,
is to stand up and be forceful again to,
to,
you know,
to take control of the situation.
And yet it's those kinds of challenges in life that build that character,
you know,
that,
that really make the difference between,
you know,
the,
the positive life,
the life lived well and those guys and gals that,
uh,
that don't make those kinds of decisions.
And you're talking about when you were,
when you were depressed,
when you were laying there,
it's because you felt like you had failed,
right?
You felt like you had broken,
you'd felt like you weren't the man that you thought you were and they'd found
your breaking point and you'd found your breaking point and you didn't like
that.
Yup.
And what if I remember correctly,
what,
what got you through that was,
you know,
you,
you went broke down into going to your,
one of your cellmates and said,
well,
this is horrible.
I'm a,
I'm a disaster.
I'm a failure.
I broke.
And he kind of Said,
Oh yeah,
welcome to the club.
We all break.
It was like one of those things.
And I think to your point,
absolutely everyone,
everyone has a point where they go,
oh,
you know,
I failed to here.
I didn't do what I was supposed to do.
I lacked the character that I needed at that time too.
To be a good leader or to even stand up and fight.
One more time.
I failed.
And the point is all us all sitting around at this table and every single person
that's listening to this right now,
you can find a spot in your life where you said,
you know what?
I didn't do it.
I didn't hold the line item.
My character broke and I wasn't the person that I should have been at that
moment.
And that's,
that's absolutely true.
But what's more important than the fact then that we all get to a point where we
break is number one,
that everybody breaks.
And number two,
that doesn't mean it's over.
That just me that says it's a bump in the road.
It's a bump in the road and you've got to rebuild from it.
You got to come back and you can,
you can do that.
And not only that,
but largely that bump in the road builds your character
even further because you understand your limitations and you understand that you
can overcome these things.
And you know,
back to the story of the prisoners of war,
591 of us came home and from that 591 men,
we produce 17 generals and six admirals.
And most of us retired as senior grade military officers.
We went back to flying planes and commanding fleets and,
and battalions all over the world.
We have a bunch of congressmen,
two United States senators,
a vice presidential Kennedy President or candidate,
a all from 591 guys.
Uh,
and,
and so and,
and we all felt like we'd fail.
We all felt like we'd given up.
But even because of that adversity,
you know,
we,
we came out stronger than ever before.
I think this really goes also to the fact that,
I mean,
what you're saying is essentially the fact that you have to know,
you have to understand what your weaknesses are.
You really do.
And,
and you have to understand human beings and what human beings weaknesses are.
And for me,
you know what,
I've talked about this a ton on this podcast.
You have to understand that there's,
that human beings are capable of doing very dark and horrible things.
And if you can't,
and if you can't recognize that you yourself are capable of the dark and
horrible things end of the week things,
well then you're not really being truthful with yourself and with your existence
really as a human being.
And you ignore those things.
And I think when you ignore those things,
I think that's when they sneak up on you.
I think you're right.
You know,
I think that's the crux of our real serious challenge with suicide within the
veteran population.
And,
and I worked on this and Jim's worked on SNL and you've worked on it as well.
Uh,
and what are the advantages we had as prisoners of war is that we,
that we exposed ourselves,
you know,
we recognize our weakness and,
and to a man,
we knew that we weren't as strong as we wanted to be.
And so,
um,
just,
just that community that we built within the prison camp,
tapping on walls and tugging on wires and our secret codes,
very difficult to communicate with everybody else,
but we had leadership there that turned that,
that,
that turned that whole thing around.
And,
uh,
and the leadership head,
wait a minute,
you're not a victim.
I'm a very junior officer there.
You,
and I'm a lieutenant JG.
Wait a minute.
I'm in a communist prison camp.
I am leading him for open wounds.
I have no medical care.
And,
um,
I'm starving.
I've been tortured,
uh,
I'm down to 115 pounds and I'm not on the defensive.
I'm not a victim.
Now you pull up your big boy pants,
let's get on with this thing.
We had a war to fight and,
and,
and so the leadership totally re the,
they refocus the whole purpose of,
of our being there and that and,
and gave us a mission.
And I think that's one of the challenges we faced.
When a guy gets out of the military or a gal and takes off that uniform,
he loses the purpose,
he loses that mission.
Um,
and it,
it he uses,
loses that community and he puts on a coat and tie or you know,
puts into a golf shirt and goes out and tries to reconnect with people.
Um,
and at gym is what you were talking about,
you know,
at being in civilian clothes and Paris and you,
you were looking for some way to reconnect it with,
with your unit.
And I run quickly here,
they come marching down the champs Ailey's a den,
Alito and,
and,
and there you were back in uniform.
And,
and,
and so you and,
and you had,
uh,
wrestling Dettra,
you know,
you had a purpose,
a reason to live just because of,
of the group that you were associated with.
And,
and whenever I speak publicly,
I,
you know,
I challenged an audience that if you've got,
if you know a veteran,
you know,
uh,
talk to him,
you know,
give them a purpose,
uh,
invite him to interfere into your house or your club or your church and,
it may make a difference.
And that way you can serve your country by serving those who served their
country.
Yeah.
It's,
uh,
it's interesting,
you know,
Jim,
you Kinda,
you kind of made that a joking comment,
you know,
hey,
Truman dropped the bomb and ruined a perfectly good war and we all laughed at
it.
But we all also kind of understand that there's some level of,
of reality to that.
And you think when you're in the military,
and I always,
you know,
I was,
I was talking about the fact that when I joined the navy was 1990 and I just
missed the first Gulf War.
And like,
I was completely dismayed by that because you know,
there hadn't been a war since basically since Vietnam.
So it'd been 20 years.
And I'm thinking,
okay,
there was,
there was my shot to fight in a war and I just missed it.
And,
and so that,
that what you're talking about of hey,
you feel like this is your purpose and,
and this is what I'm supposed to be doing with my life and it's a higher purpose
and it's a higher cause and it's something that is,
is bigger than you.
And so when you're a part of it,
it feels good and you don't want to participate and you want to help.
And then when it's over,
you look around and you go,
wait a second,
what's my higher purpose now?
And,
and I think you're right.
That's where people get into trouble because they're so tied to their old higher
purpose and they can't transition to the new one.
And you know,
I get great feedback from,
from vets all the time that they do,
they open up,
they,
okay,
well what am I going to do now?
That's what,
that's what I'm looking at.
What's your next mission going to be and you know what your next mission might
be being a good dad,
right?
That might be your next mission or you know what your next mission might be.
It might be building airplane hangers.
You know,
you don't know what your next mission is going to be,
but find what your next mission is going to be.
Make it something productive,
make it something that's going to impact,
you know,
at least you and your family and get good at it.
Even if you pick something that's somewhat selfish and you say,
Hey,
I want to,
I want to surf on every continent.
Okay,
that sounds like a good mission to me actually.
That sounds like a really good issue.
I might have to participate in that one,
but you know,
you come up with something you can't,
you can't.
Here's my mission and this is what I'm going to do with it and this is how I'm
going to go forward.
But yeah,
I think that the lack of purpose and the lack of mission that guys stumble into
is problematic.
And it is problematic too because in the military it's,
I don't want to make the sound the wrong way because I always talk about the
fact that for us we didn't get tasked missions.
Like when,
when,
when I was in Iraq,
we,
there was no higher up telling me,
you guys are going to take this target.
Are you guys going to take that?
That happened occasionally,
probably less than 5% of the time.
Most of the time we developed our own missions.
But overall,
when you're in the military,
you have a broad mission that you're trying to accomplish,
which again is for societal good.
And so when that disappears,
guess what?
You have some autonomy now.
Now what are you going to choose as your next mission?
What are you going to do?
How are you going to improve yourself?
How are you gonna Improve Your life,
your families,
your communities,
or your countries or the world?
What are you going to do to make it better?
And you'd see the vets that are out there that are doing that and they,
they,
big sale,
big sale.
You know,
when I was in the hospital at Great Lakes after the war,
I was in a hospital up there.
I mean,
I didn't have any serious problems,
but I was in a debriefing thing and,
but I had figured out in that hospital,
and even on the way home that my,
my next stage of life isn't going.
I'm,
I'm going to,
uh,
to try to forget all of that six years of a,
in that prison camp,
that six years of pain.
Um,
and I even had it figured out.
I'm going to go to some little town in the middle of nowhere where they've never
heard of Charlie plumb.
And if they have all changed my name and because I don't want anybody knowing my
history,
I want,
you know,
I want to slide back into the shadows of life.
And,
and I,
I was serious about that.
You know,
my,
my high,
my high school sweetheart had just a file for divorce three months before I came
home.
And,
uh,
and so I was,
you know what I mean?
I felt free and I felt energized,
but I really didn't want to have anything to do with the Vietnam war or any of
the pain that I had faced there,
saw no value in it.
And I was,
so that was the first guy back from the war in,
in the Midwest and the,
so,
so the news media,
you know,
really wanted to talk to me.
And so I found myself surrounded by about 150 photographers and reporters in the
basement of that hospital.
And I told my story,
and on the way back up to my hospital room,
just as the elevator doors close,
this young reporter,
um,
came up to me and I'm nose to nose with this young guy,
but he's got lines of anguish in his brow and tears in his eyes.
And he said,
Mister Plumber,
you really got to me in there.
He said,
I've had a miserable and my family's falling apart.
My job is terrible.
He said,
I even wondered if I wanted to go on living.
you've given me hope.
What?
Well,
I hadn't intended to give anybody any hope.
I'm just telling my story here.
You know,
and,
and it surprised me that there was some value in the experience.
And so,
and so I said,
well,
if in fact that,
you know,
the,
the pain of that experience can help one person,
you know,
in,
in life,
then maybe there is a purpose to it.
And so,
uh,
so I wrote a book,
my autobiography,
and I started to promote that book.
And,
uh,
and,
and I found that yes,
there,
there's,
there's a lot of connection with people with challenges and you don't have to be
in the military to have a challenge.
And,
uh,
and,
and while my experience might have been a little more dramatic,
you know,
than most,
and it's an interesting story.
Uh,
it's still,
you know,
the,
the challenges I faced were the challenges that,
you know,
that,
that a single mother trying to make ends meat makes,
you know,
the frustration and the loneliness and the,
and the,
and the lack of confidence and the feeling that you're not measuring up.
And you know,
all of these things,
there are,
these are,
these are common human feelings.
You don't have to be in a prison camp to,
to be in prison.
No,
that's it.
That's a great,
well actually I was,
I was curse cause I'd never heard before about the flack houses and that the
bombers,
the bomber crews were being sent to when they'd,
but when they'd basically said,
all right,
where were done right now?
I mean,
what was the casualty rate of the bomber crews?
It was something completely insane,
wasn't it?
Well it was 25 mission requirement,
the percentages,
so they couldn't make it.
Now we're talking early [inaudible] 43 it was the start of the heavy bombing
thing was [inaudible] 42 so let me just,
let me just focus it on that for one second just to explain to everyone what
that means.
Cause I,
I did know about the 25.
So if you were a bomber crew,
you were flying in a,
in a what,
a B,
1717 B 24 a be 17 or be 24 big giant flying fortresses and they would get
attacked,
ruthlessly attacked and they'd fly deep into France and on into Germany and they
would get swarmed and attacked by,
you know,
by German fighter pilots and,
and also antiaircraft guns from the ground.
And so it was,
it was hellish to get through and it was so bad that they said,
okay,
well all you have to do is this many missions.
And the number was 25 which I did know that number.
You got to make it through 25 of these bomb runs and you are done.
[inaudible] that was it.
You didn't have to do anymore.
But you're saying the chances of actually making it through those 20 was
minimal.
What percentages were against,
you know,
sure.
Some people are going to get through some people who are going to be shot down
on their first mission that don't get a second mission.
But,
uh,
and this was the problem with the heavy bomber forces in it and we almost lost
that one.
I mean,
we came close while we were at the ragged edge and all,
and I'm repeating what I learned is,
uh,
as a youngster that time trying to be an aviation cadet,
that guys
we're hanging on by our fingertips.
When you say we almost lost that one,
you mean we almost had to stop the bombing campaign?
Well,
the British were after us.
They had switched to night bombing for this very same reason,
stay away from the fighters.
And so,
uh,
our philosophy of heavy bombardment goes back to General Mitchell in the,
in the early and thirties and late twenties.
No,
in fact,
the early twenties that the bombers will fight their way through.
And that was the theory of the be 17 and gosh knows they were heavily armed,
but they're all,
they were up against a determined enemy and there 500 miles from home and German
fighters,
all they gotta do step out and they don't like what's going on,
bail out.
You're going to come down and we'll go get another airplane.
But,
uh,
those were dark days and they were dark days until the first,
fighters,
the beat,
the,
uh,
Pete 47th could only go so deep.
Right.
Well,
could they go like 200 miles deep at 200,
200 miles?
Yes.
And,
and having enough fuel to get home on.
And the rest of the Times that the other 300 mile round trip or 400 extra miles
where all the bombers by themselves by,
if it was 50 miles,
it was hell.
Once the fighters turned back,
uh,
so they sent for,
they ended up with a,
with four groups of p 38 and 38 was not ready to go to war over well,
Eh,
uh,
Germany at that time,
at the altitude,
we were having trouble with the airplane and we didn't have the latest
modifications to the airplane.
So,
uh,
part of our problem was engine problems with the Allison engines,
but they went anyway.
And so then the 51 came along and 51 had a British engine who had,
which had been developed in that very same uh,
uh,
area.
And they had,
you know,
they weren't having the cove.
Their engine had been designed and operate 60 degrees below zero.
And so they match the two up in Sylvan Lake 43.
They get the first group over there and now there's a little hope the airplane
could go the whole way.
The 38 had been going to go the whole way,
but 38 had been modified for the Pacific and there was no heat in the cockpit.
And you're sitting up there,
it's 62 degrees below zero,
freezing your tail off with the oxygen,
the oxygen and masters actually frozen deer face.
Uh,
he came in,
you have one warm spot in the whole comp,
a cockpit,
and that was your right foot.
That's where the heat came in.
So everything else is freezing your fanny off and so,
and they hadn't,
so we had problems.
Luckily the British engine and the 51 and North Americans,
tremendous design put together the airplane that could do the job.
Uh,
the,
um,
and then they could,
it could be 50 ones escort on the whole,
the whole bank goes the whole way in and cruise around and go someplace else.
Wow.
Uh,
the 38 could do that.
It had the fuel to do it.
But again,
you know,
there's an old story about the 38th.
It kind of broke our heart.
Uh,
there was two great modifications to the p 38 38 at elder to lock with the
bombers and you're hit with fighters.
You can get into a scrap and the German rolls over and they had,
I explained the flick role that I encountered.
They'd do a flip role in split s make a dive to the deck.
If a 38 did that and tried to follow them,
the airplane would accelerate into what we call a compressability.
And compressability was nothing more than a shockwave off of the,
the,
the wing that killed all the control in your emperor nod so you couldn't pull
out.
So all you could do is write it down until you got into what we called fit air.
Got Your,
uh,
then your trim tab,
if you set it properly,
would gradually bring you out of that time before he hit the ground.
Some of them hit the ground.
So,
uh,
and we didn't have,
we have a very slow rate of role in the 38,
so they develop,
uh,
Iran boost.
Uh,
so we could actually,
we could roll with anybody.
Uh,
they had the dive flap,
so if you went in,
you could actually hit the dye flap button,
put that airplane straight down and dive with anybody in a German fighter.
So what a lock he did.
They got 400 sets,
shifts,
sets of dye flaps and aileron boost.
They put it on an a,
an air force.
It's a transport plane and they send it to England.
You've got intercepted off the English coast.
Why?
They are?
Yeah.
Who didn't know anything about it.
They thought it was a German con door.
400 nervous,
but they shot it down there.
There it goes.
All of our improvements.
And so what do you do now?
It took quite a while to pull all those 400 units together and get them over
there.
So for the next couple months,
uh,
the 38 s are doing the same old thing.
We don't have the improvement.
P 51 comes along,
thank God,
and it can do the job.
So it's all history there.
51 said trouble.
I know of one that pulled out of a dive in the whole damn engine fell out of the
airplane and the guy got killed.
But um,
uh,
they had engines quit.
Every single engine fighter was,
that's a problem and somebody throws a rock that you and it hits the radiator,
you're all done.
So,
um,
but those were trying times.
Yeah,
I guess I was with all that,
you know,
thinking about these,
these guys that were in those bomber crews that would need a break and they say,
okay,
you need to go over here and not think about this.
And it reminds me of,
you know,
talking about,
Dick winters from the first,
the five oh six band of brothers and what he would say when he would see guys
were getting stressed out,
you know,
he'd get them off the line,
get them out of it and,
and give them the rest that they need.
And,
and then I think,
I think there's a certain party that goes,
okay,
like I need to not think about this right now.
And then I think you got to say,
okay,
now I'm going to talk about this.
And,
and the fact that you get around your,
your friends and that's what a lot of people that listen to podcasts,
a lot of veterans I listened to podcast,
they go,
you know,
now you know,
I've,
I've had my break but now you're talking about this stuff and I,
I appreciate it and I bring,
lets me know that I'm not the only guy that thinks this way or had those
thoughts or you know,
went through this.
And I think that's,
that's good.
So I think it's,
I think you do need a break.
And actually that now that I think about it,
when I was in Ramadi,
I had I,
the book that I read every night was about face by Colonel David Hackworth.
And I rented every single night,
every single night,
every single night.
And then about three months into deployment,
I wanted to,
I didn't want to think about,
you know,
I didn't want to go to bed,
sleep thinking about,
you know,
the war and war and,
and so I,
there was a random book sitting around and I picked up,
it was actually a book called the electric koolaid acid test,
which is about the hippies in,
it's written by Tom Wolfe who wrote the right stuff,
but it's a great book.
And it was so completely outside of what I was doing that it gave me,
you know,
like a mental break.
And I read that book and it was,
you know,
it took me four days to read that book and I got done and I put it away.
I put pulled about face back out and I continued on,
but I just needed a little bit of a breather.
Right.
Just a little bit of a mental breather and I guess hippies and Lsd provided me
with that,
reading about those hippies and LSD provided me with this little mental break
and it was actually,
it's a very,
it's a very interesting and bolt book and it shows the mentality that those
people had,
you know,
which was the way he summed it up was,
was was mi,
Mi,
mi,
everything's about me.
And that was what was good for me to read this book.
I'm like,
okay,
that's not how I want to be with my life is not about me.
It's about,
you know,
what we're trying to do here.
So yeah,
I think sometimes people need a mental break.
I can't even imagine what the,
you know,
what was going on in one of those flack houses with those guys.
That sounds like an rnr for ya.
RNR.
They were run by the Red Cross and I was multicolored manner,
which was right on the tims river.
Uh,
of course I was there,
uh,
when we had the ice storms.
And in fact,
when I left the,
the Black House,
uh,
to go back to Paris,
I couldn't get a ride across the channel and just what,
uh,
our friend Glenn Miller dollar ride and disappeared.
And so I'm trying to get across the channel,
uh,
to Paris.
And it's a,
between Christmas and new years and,
uh,
I way I went out to,
several of the bases around run London together,
an ATC or craft to go to Paris and they're all grounded.
And so I,
uh,
I went down to South Hampton and,
two ships had just commend to Southampton that were going on to law Harv.
And so I got on board and they were hospital ships,
uh,
with a complete complement of the general hospitals,
like two or three different general hospitals and we're full of nurses.
And so new year's Eve,
we were on this ship with all these nurses and we're on a,
I guess you'd call it battle stations because the e boats from the Germany boats
were operating in the channel.
And we're going across from Southampton to uh,
uh,
[inaudible] and all these nervous nurses from the u s needed comfort.
Do
you get a medal for that?
So,
um,
anyway,
that was,
that was the story.
Just how I got to the end of the story.
I've
for golf or I don't even care anymore,
but I love you
stop a couple of things.
When we were talking and um,
uh,
when I got shot down,
you read the citation?
Well,
I didn't know anything about that citation.
Uh,
I had gotten my fanny shot off.
I was not happy.
I said,
I kept thinking what could I have done different that I could have stayed in
that fight longer.
Uh,
and I,
I never came up with an answer.
What could I have done?
So for about from September till I get this orders to go to Paris to spots is
headquarters.
I was not the highest,
I didn't think much of myself is why did it,
why couldn't I have done a better job?
But,
uh,
reading that citation and then belonging to a group called the Legion of Valor,
which there are not too many air force guys left in it.
Uh,
and I read what these people have done.
these ground crew who fact one of my very close friends and had the
distinguished service cross and they just upgraded to congressional medal of
honor and he's gotten quite a bit of publicity and he was in Vietnam.
And,
and my comment when I,
uh,
saw that he had gotten the congressional medal longer at this late date,
I thought it was God,
somebody finally read his citation.
Hmm.
And when you,
when you think that that,
what all of these guys did,
a lot of the fellows in the,
uh,
in the legion of Valor are medics what they did and combat conditions and got to
just English curves across the Navy,
Cross in silver forth.
It's,
you know,
I,
I read my citation,
it took six minutes,
that's all.
And then I read a book called I'm no hero
and I think Charlie porn six years a bat,
my six minutes for me.
Uh,
that's,
I mean,
what he went through is just unbelievable to me and said,
don't give me the monk about,
I'm no hero,
but it's,
um,
it's,
it's
deep thought,
but thanks for that Jim.
I patient.
You're saying that,
uh,
well let me ask one more question that you Jocko,
because Jim and I both talked about getting shot down and feeling miserable
after your ear fight where you accidentally killed one of the Iraqi soldiers.
Uh,
but you felt pretty little about,
yeah,
that's about as,
that's about as bad as it gets.
And,
um,
you know,
it was,
it was a horrible situation.
It was the fog of war.
It was multiple units out on the battlefield.
It was,
it was actually not,
not me.
That was that,
that shop and Iraqi soldier who was one of my small teams that was in a position
where,
you know,
amongst the confusion,
they were assaulted by a friendly group of Iraqi soldiers with one,
they had one marine with them.
And Yeah,
the,
you know,
it's,
it's something that you can,
it's hard to make,
um,
you know,
definite statements or,
or,
or say,
I know this for a fact,
but there's pretty much not anything worse in war then friendly forces,
killing friendly forces that just,
that's just as bad as it gets.
And it's a real taboo in,
in special operations for sure.
It's a taboo in any,
and I'll tell you during the,
during the,
I guess we'll say the dry years in between Vietnam and,
and the current wars were in there was we actually lost the understanding of how
these things could happen and,
and no one really understood the fog of war anymore and therefore we didn't
train to it properly.
And so when it happened,
it was,
it was like an unbelievable thing.
It was so bad.
It was the absolute worst thing that could happen.
Actually,
I would say there'd be one more thing.
You know,
the soul,
the,
the person that was killed,
a soldier that was killed was an Iraqi soldier.
You know,
if it had been a sealer and American,
I guess that would make it one level higher for me cause I would have known the
person,
you know,
in this case it was an Iraqi soldier.
Again,
a tragic loss nonetheless.
But you know,
how did I feel?
It felt,
it felt absolutely horrible.
And the thing that,
you know,
the thing that changed the mindset for me was when I realized that as I sat
there and reviewed because you know,
my commanding officer was coming to inspect and in review what had happened
along with the investigating officer.
And you know,
the thing that changed my mindset was as I sat there and said,
okay,
who's fault is this?
Whose fault is this?
Whose fault is this,
whose fault is this?
And I'm looking at all the different mistakes that were made by all the
different units and all the different people.
And as I'm looking to blame this on someone,
it would became very clear to me in like a bolt of lightening that there was
only one person in charge of this and therefore the only one person responsible
for what happens out there.
And that's me.
And
honestly the one I had that transition in fought and it was,
it was the first moment that I,
I felt actually,
okay.
Uh,
there's a horrible sinking feeling that you get in,
in,
in war time situations.
I guess you can get it.
Another time sue and I've talked about it with,
with some of my friends,
it's like when something is just really horrible is happening,
you get this knot in your stomach.
And this,
it's,
I've never felt that any other times.
But when I was overseas,
uh,
of,
of like,
this is,
I,
I have it,
it's the most horrible feeling.
And um,
that was,
that was the most severe I ever felt.
It was leading up to my own recognition that,
you know,
what,
and,
and where that was coming from was the unknown and I didn't know how to react to
it.
And here I was,
you know,
Mister experienced seal,
Mr you know,
in charge of the task unit,
whatever.
And yet here I was going,
how do I deal with this?
And I didn't understand how to deal with it.
And what I had to do is go to what I actually did know,
which is if you're in a leadership position,
you take responsibility for what happens.
That's what you do.
So,
hey,
that's what you do.
And if,
if they're going to fire you,
you get fired.
If they're going to reprimand you,
you get reprimanded.
If they're going to replace you with someone else,
you get replaced.
You salute,
you do the best turnover you can.
You try and do the,
you know,
give all the information you can.
That's what you do.
And as soon as I accepted that and looked at it and said,
okay,
well then that not started to go away.
And I realized that,
okay,
the real problem here is,
is the way that you're looking at this.
But,
uh,
and then the other big thing is once you admit what those are,
and you take ownership of those problems and you actually not just take
ownership of the problems,
but as you say,
here's the problems and here's how we're going to get them solved.
Here's the standard operating procedures that we're now going to follow to make
sure that this never happens again.
Well then people look at you and they go,
okay,
he's got a plan.
He's not sitting here dodging the blame for this.
He's actually taking ownership of the problems and he's going to get them
solved.
And I think,
you know,
I've never had this conversation with my commanding officer about his reaction,
but I could see it,
you know,
I could see it.
And the fact that I,
the fact that he said,
okay,
you know,
let's make sure it doesn't happen again.
I like the procedures that you're putting in place.
Use caution,
proceed.
You know,
where is I believe that if I would've said,
well,
it wasn't my fault,
it was his fault and their fault and the other guy's fault,
he would have said,
okay,
you need,
you're not going to have this job anymore.
And I think that's the same thing with life.
You know,
the minute that you're,
you're looking around you and you're saying,
hey,
it's someone else's fault that this,
that I'm in this bad situation.
And again,
you know what,
okay,
there's things that happen.
I get that there's things that happen to two people.
You mentioned one of them.
You can get a disease that you can't control you,
you know,
you can get a,
you can have,
you know,
a child get hit by a car.
I mean,
there's awful things that can happen that you can't have control over,
but what you can have control over is how you proceed and how you go forward.
And that's the part that you need to focus on because the,
the opportunity to fix what happened in the past,
it's gone.
I'm sorry.
There's no time machine.
There's no way of going back.
It's happened.
It's gone.
Okay,
how are you going to move forward?
Where are you going to go now?
That's what you need to focus on.
And I've said that about regret too.
People say,
Oh,
you know,
I live with no regrets.
I'm like,
oh,
I,
there's all kinds of things I'll tell you I regret,
but I don't walk around with them because I can't do anything about them.
Like,
you know,
maybe you would have maneuvered your aircraft a little bit different on
September 16th,
1940 Ford,
you've looked at it.
Maybe you couldn't,
but maybe you could have,
but you don't walk around carrying that because it doesn't matter anymore.
And it's the same thing with the things I've been through.
It's like,
okay,
look,
I made mistakes.
You've made mistakes,
we've all made mistakes.
Okay,
what are we gonna do?
Are we going to dwell on those?
I let them,
you know,
bear down on us and even things that we can't control.
Maybe the mistake wasn't ours and something that we couldn't control.
Not going to carry that.
I'm going to,
I'm going to not going to carry that regret.
I'm going to say,
well,
what can I do to move forward?
And actually there's a great guy just had on the podcast named Rob Jones.
He's a marine.
He fought in Iraq and in Afghanistan.
And he ended up,
he was a,
he was a
bomb disposal digging for mines,
a combat engineer.
And he ended up finding a mine and he found that mine,
well,
you know,
with his own feet.
And he,
he lost both of his legs and he said something that was,
was awesome.
He says,
you know,
you've got this weight that's bearing down on you.
And he was sitting in a hospital bed and then he had this weight that was
bearing down on him if he's going to live now the rest of his life with,
you know,
both legs amputated,
amputated above the knee.
And He,
you know,
he said,
what am I gonna do with this?
Wait,
am I going to let it,
am I going to let it push me down and bury me under the ground or am I going to
use that weight to make myself stronger?
And I think that's a incredible attitude to have.
And,
and by the way,
he's about to run 31 marathons,
31 days.
I was going to run 31 marathon in 31 days.
Yeah.
Unbelievable.
So,
you know,
the toughest,
uh,
flying that I ever did,
was in combat,
in support of the ground troops,
and they'd bring us in,
uh,
with a rocket or bonds or napalm.
We didn't have any guns on that airplane.
And,
uh,
but we knew that we had to get close but not too close to the,
to the friendlies,
uh,
to be effective,
you know,
and we couldn't put our weapons,
uh,
you know,
40 clicks away and,
and doing any good at all.
Uh,
but we get in too close to start Sinjun the mustaches are those soldiers or
marines down there and,
and,
oh,
by the way,
if you get too close,
actually,
it goes way beyond singeing mustaches.
You have,
you go to close,
you can kill friendly troops.
And again,
we're back to what we just talked about.
So that's,
that's,
and it was done,
you know what I mean?
W it again,
the fog of war.
And that's what happens.
It's really,
really unfortunate to,
so I would get that knot in my stomach when Eero was called in to support the
ground troops in a fact,
would,
you know,
torch off the smoke signal.
And I'd look at the wind and trying to figure out exactly how I can get in their
clothes.
And lots of times I would go below the frag pattern of the bomb I was dropping
just so I could get more accuracy and,
and we all did that,
you know,
we weren't supposed to,
but uh,
you know,
an average bomb,
a,
you know,
500 pound bomb would have a frag pattern of 2,400 feet above the ground.
That's what you were flying through after you dropped the bomb.
And we'd go below that just to get more accuracy.
Uh,
because we knew that those guys were dependent on us and boy,
they were,
there were some happy facts,
you know,
after we,
after we would,
uh,
support those ground troops.
But it was,
um,
you know,
it was pretty scary stuff.
Um,
but back to your point about blaming other people.
I had a coach early on and that a very losing team,
sorry to say,
but,
but he,
but he would,
he,
he told us this,
Eh,
because we'd start blaming other things where the problem,
you know,
yeah,
we were away and we didn't,
you know,
th th th th th things weren't right and somebody's,
we blame somebody for this or somebody they added to the,
you know,
the refs were calling it a bad calls and all this stuff.
And he'd said,
you know,
um,
uh,
the difference in success and failure in life is not the things around you.
And it's the choices you make about things around you.
And you can blame everybody else for your problems.
But in doing so,
you give away control of your life.
And I think that's the,
the accountability issue that you're talking about,
you know,
is that there's,
there's certainly freedom in discipline.
There's also a freedom in accountability,
I think.
Because when you,
like you say,
you know,
when you say,
okay,
yeah,
lots of people made a lot of mistakes,
but oh,
by the way,
I was in charge.
And so,
you know,
the onus is really on me and,
and I find that when I,
when I practiced taking,
um,
when it practiced,
uh,
taking responsibility for some of the bad things that really weren't my fault.
Uh,
and,
and I practice doing that.
It frees me up,
I think to let you know,
to live a,
um,
a freer life.
Yeah,
that's actually an interesting point because sometimes people,
they,
they hear like they'll read the book extreme ownership that we wrote and they
go,
okay,
cool.
All I need to do is take ownership of the problems and then I'm,
then I'm a good guy.
Yeah.
Right.
They go,
oh,
you know,
hey,
these mistakes happen.
That's my fault.
You know,
so let's get them fixed.
And that actually doesn't work actually.
And,
and when I say,
Hey,
there was all these mistakes that were made on the battlefield and different
people made actual mistakes.
They made mistakes the day we had that blue on blue,
there was other people that made mistakes.
What I'm saying isn't like,
oh,
those were my mistakes.
Hey,
it's my fault.
No,
no,
no.
What I'm saying is actually,
truthfully,
those mistakes were things that I should have foreseen,
that I should have understood better,
that I should have planned better than I should have trained guys better for
that.
They,
they are,
uh,
they,
they made the mistake.
But the root problem of that mistake is my fault.
It's not just saying,
Hey,
my boss states it's,
you know,
Oh yeah,
that was my fault.
No,
no,
no.
And actually is my fault.
And I have this conversation too where people say,
well,
what if I do,
what do I do if I tell my employees,
oh guys,
it was my fault.
And then my employees say,
yeah,
that's right.
It was your fault and that people don't know what to do.
And I said,
well,
it is your fault.
That's what I'm saying.
I'm not saying this so that it makes people not look at you and blaming.
No,
no.
When someone says,
if I say,
Charlie,
we screwed up this mission.
It was my fault.
And you go,
that's right.
It was your fault.
I don't go,
no,
no.
I said,
well,
no,
it's your fault.
No,
no,
no.
That's not how it works.
I say,
Charlie,
I was the commander of this mission.
I didn't give you enough information to,
I didn't,
I didn't review your plan well enough.
I didn't give you the training that you needed.
I didn't give you the support that you needed.
That was my fault.
That is w and here is what I'm going to do to fix it.
So when I look at you and say,
Hey,
this is my fault that this happened,
and you say,
you're right,
it was,
I go,
exactly.
These are the things I'm going to do to fix it.
Here's where the way we're going to do this from now on,
here's some procedures we're going to put in place so that this doesn't happen.
So yes,
extreme ownership is not by any stretch an escape patch.
It's not.
In fact,
when you take ownership,
you shut the hack.
Gang names are there and you're not getting out.
The only way to get out is to find solutions for the problems and move forward.
Yeah.
So it's an interesting,
it's interesting.
That brings me up to civilian life.
Now you've talked about a mission and a having something out in front of you.
Well,
I got off active duty in 1948,
June,
exactly two years before Korea was started.
And um,
my father in law who actually became almost like a father to me by that time,
we'd been married for three years and,
uh,
he was deeply involved in the paper industry.
He was president of Rackspace,
Western wax paper here in Los Angeles as an he had sold the company to Crown
Zeller back.
And his best friend was a Richard McDonald who was executive vice president of
Crown Zeller back.
And uh,
between the two of them,
uh,
they found this little paper company and they're going to take care of their son
in laws and son.
And so,
uh,
Dick Mcdonald got off active duty as an engineer in the army,
before,
uh,
before I did.
So he arrived at the paper company maybe almost a year before
I did.
And
I had put my,
all the money I had into this company before while I was still on active duty.
So,
um,
I come home in June 48 and it's 4th of July coming up.
And my father in law takes me down and read by three civilian suits and all of a
sudden I'm a civilian and I'm going to go work for this little company.
And Dick Mcdonald was running the company because he was there a year before,
but we had a partner in this company.
And so I go down and I go to work and boy,
um,
uh,
cause I'm going to technically aligned minded,
they put me in charge of the operation,
the planet operation.
So now I'm a civilian and I'm working hard and it goes for about three months.
And then I begin to notice that we'd get an order in.
And we,
by that time we had maybe 50 employees and we were making paper Napkins and
shelf paper and all these little items.
We were what was called a paper converter.
And so,
uh,
I noticed in running the plant that we get an order in and I'd look at the
inventory and we'd had so much paper back in the inventory,
and I go back and check it and we ain't got it.
And so now what's wrong?
And so we had a little meeting and he'd say,
well,
maybe we better take an inventory and see what's in the back of a plant there.
And it turns out that our partner who actually had control of the company,
uh,
was deathly afraid to admit that he had been losing money.
And he wasn't dishonest or anything.
He just didn't want to admit it.
And so to cover the losses,
he inflated the inventory.
So now we have this big meeting,
I'm 90 days into being a civilian,
and we take the inventory and we add all this up.
And Dick Mcdonald and I,
oh,
Crown Zellerbach Corporation about $20,000.
It's 1948.
And let me tell you,
$20,000 is one hell of a lot.
A lot of money.
Wow.
And when a house would cost,
what,
500 to a thousand dollars?
Oh yeah,
yeah.
Wow.
So,
so,
uh,
now what are we do?
Um,
well the first thing we do is,
well,
welcome to the business world.
We,
we decided that we'd better do something and our father and my father in law and
Richard Mcdonald's father said,
well,
what are you going to do?
Well,
the first thing we had to do is who had to go up and talk to crown Zillow back
in San Francisco and saw her.
In order to do that,
I had to buy a top coat and a hat because you didn't go to San Francisco on a
business,
a meeting without having a hat and a top coat.
And so we get on,
get on the train and we go to San Francisco and we're plotting the whole way up
there off.
What are we going to tell him?
I have no idea.
And got off the train at the station up there,
got a taxi and we get down to cents and street to this big beautiful buildings
is crown seller back then.
And I'm wearing my hat and my new top coat and I'm going to see Mister Zeller
back himself and justice.
I walked in the front door.
Some God them [inaudible] help above.
Let's go right down across my brain top.
Now the world,
the world can't be any worse.
No wonder why.
Well,
we had our meeting with Mr Seller backed and he was very,
very gracious.
He's all he said was,
when are you going to pay us the $20,000 so we said,
well,
we're going to work on it.
And we did.
We worked very hard for about two years when we finally began to make some money
and getting ahead and Korea started 25th of June.
And then about a week later this fellow walked into our office and he said,
we have a problem from the u s government.
And he said,
you know,
we have,
we have to build up our supplies.
And one thing that we just can't seem to solve is toilet tissue for k rations.
A little pack of toilet tissue for the little piece of paper around it too.
And so he said,
we got one machine belongs to one of the paper companies and he said,
we got that machine working,
uh,
24 hours a day,
seven days a week,
and we're not getting enough,
uh,
toilet tissue into these key Ras is what can you do?
I don't know how in the heck he found us,
but anyway,
he didn't.
So we thought,
well,
we took a look at it and we figured that we could go to crowns hour back and get
inner fold tissue paper and you could sit down and you could flip 20 sheets of
inner fold,
make two folds in
it.
And then we had to have a tube.
And so our superintendent live went out and we bought a nickel on a little
machine and made a nickel a pack for a dollar's worth of nickels,
a tube [inaudible] we made the two and we've cut it in half.
Now we got a tube to put the 20 sheets in.
And so I sit down for about an hour and I folded paper and they timed me and
they figured it was rough as I am.
Why if I can do it that much in,
in an hour,
then a young lady could do it.
So we hired about 50 gals and we put,
put them to work and making these little toilet tissue wraps and putting the
tube on it and throw it in a little box.
And we put them on piece work.
And
they were doing very well.
In fact,
we were out producing Scott tissues machine almost immediately and these little
gals down in east Los Angeles for making more money than anybody else,
and he's lost him on piecework.
And so everything's going great.
We're making money,
we're paying off the balance of the $20,000 we owed two years later.
And I'm a guy walks into the office,
he came into my office and he says,
you know,
he said,
did we got a situation here?
And he had some of my,
which packs?
And he said,
um,
said,
I'd like to see your operation.
So we took him out and plant and she picked up some of these tubes and he looked
at it and took them apart,
counted the tissues in front of me and they were all perfect.
And he said,
um,
uh,
I got something to show you.
Uh,
and he pulls these little notes out and he said,
just read them.
And here's this little note written at handwriting in this too.
And these young ladies had been writing these little notes and putting them
inside the,
the two of the tissue and they left nothing to neuromag
and he says,
he said,
you,
can you imagine some Gi and a park toll in rain taken this apart in reading this
note,
how's he going to feel?
Well,
what are we going to do?
He says,
why don't we just leave it alone?
That's not talked to dialysis.
Let them keep on doing.
It has to be a morale builder.
Anyway,
that's how we paid off the 20 stops.
Believe me,
that two years of trying to pay that off the military training,
but I had really was very helpful.
I must be a museum somewhere that's looking for those too.
You know,
I have one,
I'm value.
It's not a,
it's not an original.
Uh,
somebody picked it up after,
it must've been for Vietnam.
They were,
they've picked it up and we're producing on,
so I just,
I have one on my desk.
This is a reminder,
but it's um,
you know,
having a mission,
uh,
I got a mission real quick.
There was a very discouraging when to think of Boeing.
$20,000 from that was well over twice what I paid for my house.
Wow.
Uh,
I just looked at my watch.
We've been going for about two hours and 45 minutes.
I say we wrap up this run,
um,
Echo.
You got anything else?
Have you said anything today?
No.
Okay.
Do you have anything to add?
Um,
when I lived in Honolulu,
I had a motor scooter as well.
Really crashed.
It didn't break my leg,
but yeah,
they can get you,
you,
yeah.
You feel so like freeway there and you want to
be careful.
Oh yeah,
for sure.
Cause in Honolulu and go everywhere.
Yeah,
that's it.
Thank you both.
Very,
very much.
Proud to be with you.
Right on Charlie pumps or anything else you want to,
you want to say?
I think we've covered it all.
Really great being with you guys.
You know,
I think that the,
the transfer,
uh,
are not necessarily our knowledge but are unaware stories by just the
philosophy,
you know,
that we're coming up with because it,
uh,
it,
it spans the test of time I think,
and we'll continue to span the test of time,
the accountability issue,
uh,
the face your fears issue,
then making choices,
issue the re,
you know,
refusal to,
to blame other people for your problems,
you know,
take,
take control of your life.
And it's not just a military thing.
I think it's true with,
uh,
with our kids.
It's true with students and politicians and all,
all manners of our society just,
I think needs a little shot,
you know,
of a,
of accountability or [inaudible]
I'd agree with the note things that,
you know,
meeting Charlie and what a wonderful spokesperson he is.
Uh,
he's actually gotten me into a position,
I had to talk in front of the crowd a few times and always try to get in first
because I don't want to follow it.
People will be out
so well a welder captive I want to talk to,
but I would love to be able to read some of the edge you are doing,
reach some of these young people who,
not that they're just because they're not thinking the way I think,
but I think they're losing something.
They're losing something that this great country has given to an awful lot of
people.
And,
uh,
I,
um,
I feel that I'd like to read some and I can't.
And I think you're reaching,
I think Charlie's reaching are you're reaching them,
but there's so much we could say.
And my granddaughter just graduated from the University of Michigan for years
and it's pretty liberal school and we pay a lot of money and are send our kids
to school and sometimes they,
they get some wrong thoughts.
In least I think the wrong.
Maybe they're not.
Maybe they're right,
but I don't think so.
And so,
uh,
I think the work you're doing in Charlie's she's doing and the three of you are
doing,
uh,
is so,
so important
for the future.
Well
obviously thank you for coming,
for coming on the show,
both of you.
It's,
it's such an honor to be sitting here with you guys.
And,
and also we wouldn't be sitting here if it wasn't,
you know,
for,
for men like you that stood up and fought.
And that's why we're here.
And that's why we have the freedom to be here to do this and the freedom to try
and pass that information on so people understand what kind of sacrifices were
made so that we can live in this amazing country with this incredible amount of
opportunity to do just about anything you want and whether that's take care of
your family or go out and,
and build some kind of a corporate empire.
You can do it here and you can be happy in any one of those categories.
And it's amazing.
So thank you for coming on.
And
again,
I think if it wasn't for generations of men like you answering the call to
fight,
then our great nation would have perished long ago and it would have perished to
tyranny and it would have perished to darkness.
But because of you and men like you,
we do live in freedom and we provide hope and light to world.
So thank you both for giving that to us.
So we wrapped up with Charlie plumb and with Jim Kunkel in
in the hangers.
I got a little la off track at the end there.
I know that we were going to mention at least some social media and Charlie
plums information.
I failed to do that.
We're now back in the studio to do that right now.
So if anybody wants to link up with Captain Charlie Plumb,
you can find him on Twitter.
He is at captain kept plum plum.
It's a c a p t p l u m B.
That's on Twitter.
He's also Charlie plum on Facebook or you can go to Charlie plumb.com if you
want to get in touch with him.
Also,
if you do want to find either myself or Echo Charles,
you can find us also on Twitter,
on Instagram,
and also on the Facebook.
You can find us there.
Echo is at Echo Charles and I am at Jocko Willink.
And if you want to support this podcast in any way,
Echo,
how can we do that
anyways?
I'll keep this brief.
Try to origin or gin main.com Maine,
the state.
So origin main.com.
Good stuff.
Gear all made in America from the cotton,
the actual raw cotton to the material to make it all the way into what shirts?
Pants.
GIES is geezer flagship kind of fraction you think?
Yeah.
That's the origin of origin is to make Jujitsu gies in America.
Yeah,
but now we're making all kinds of stuff.
Pentical stuff anyway.
Yeah,
go to the website.
Check those ones out.
Compression gear also.
Yeah.
Not just rash guards.
Compare compression gear.
Are we calling the rash guards compression gear?
I don't know.
You were gonna have to figure that one out.
Yeah.
Compression gear sorta sounds all technical rash guards.
So one of the reality of the scenario in the surfing situation.
Yeah.
So both,
whatever you like.
Know what we mean?
Yeah.
You know what we're coming from on that one.
Ultimately.
Yeah.
Uh,
also super krill.
That's Jocko Super Krill Krill oil that's out.
Yup.
Or Gin Maine.
And then you click on labs,
right?
The lab tab and they got a little bar.
You,
you'll see it.
Yeah.
Go there.
Go to origin main.com and then a bunch of people preordered it ordered it.
So they should start originated in the mail.
They're getting people have it now.
Oh Dang.
Okay.
And Yeah,
if you want more you can get it there.
Yeah.
And joint warfare,
that's a good one too.
So if you've got this blend,
you've got the d by the double,
you know,
situation.
That's ultimately the kit,
right?
The joint maintenance excellence kit.
That's it.
Yeah.
Boom.
And then,
yeah,
like I said,
Geez,
rash guards,
all kinds of cool stuff.
Just go on there.
And that's a,
that's a good way to support also fitness gear,
kettle bells.
You know how like you mentioned this and I,
and I posted a little Instagram video of me of,
you know,
you said a random and I'm walking through the house Instagram,
I'll give you credit.
He has a very good Instagram video.
I liked it a lot.
That actually,
that is exactly what that was was when you said,
yeah,
I keep my honors.
Do a snatch.
Yeah.
I just do like clean and jerk yet.
So that's what it was.
You know,
you walk by it and he noticed it.
Boom.
Hit it.
I think was calling you out.
You know who's call about who now?
But I will admit now that I have like the whole set pretty much chimp,
Werewolf,
gorilla,
72 pounds,
big foot,
90 pounds,
they're all out there.
Right.
You know?
Where you,
where I made that video,
I feel the same way as you when I walked by.
You just,
you kind of want to and that's good for you.
Yeah.
Unless you're all super cold and stiff and then you want to grab that,
the 90 pounds,
that's not good for a little lighter.
Your,
yes.
Anyway,
point there being,
I digress.
Anyway,
I get my kettle bells from Onnit.
Saul kettlebells are cool.
Of course.
I'm not going to go into a whole kettle bell thing.
No,
I'm not going to,
but if you want the cooler kettlebells,
kettlebells,
the artistic ones I liked on at once.
Approved Werewolf one I think is my favorite one.
It's dope.
You can get the regular ones too.
Anyway,
also a bunch of other stuff.
Maces battle ropes,
like any kind of kind of,
the functional train is we'd call this functional stuff functional.
It's functional and it's,
I guess the word is fitness.
Even though I don't like that word.
That's,
that's why I was kind of functional training,
I guess.
Hardcore functional training.
Yeah.
There is some cool stuff on there and all the info behind it too on it.com/jocko
that's a good way to support also when you buy books including but not limited
to.
Charlie plums book Jock was book.
Go to the website.
Charlie plums book is called I'm no hero,
right?
Yeah.
That's what it's called.
I'm not a hero.
I'm no hero.
Anyway,
go to Jocko,
podcast.com yeah,
for that book.
Actually get it from Charlie,
Charlie,
plumb.com.
Okay.
That's the best place to get that book.
Actually,
you know what,
I'm going to link it to Charlie Plott.
Yeah,
one on the website.
But yeah,
it's a good idea.
So nonetheless,
go to Jocko podcast.com.
Go to the book section.
Boom.
Click through there.
When you get your books.
It's a good way to support,
brings you to Amazon and,
and could you do your shopping?
You sure could.
As in duct tape,
ear,
ear phones.
Sarah Armstrong bought something big.
I forget what on more older son or not.
You need a lawnmower?
Definitely.
Yeah,
it was on.
Click through four.
Should wait as a porch.
Very good way.
Also subscribe to the podcast on Itunes,
stitcher,
Google play and all other podcast providing platforms.
It seems obvious,
but hey,
that's a good way also on youtube.
Put some excerpts on there.
Put one out the other day.
Hmm.
Good one.
Um,
very shareable,
but nonetheless,
no less a subscribe to the youtube.
It,
that's a good way to support you.
Get other stuff on top of the video version of this podcast excerpts and how
should I say,
other creative short films?
Yeah.
By one Echo Charles.
Sure.
With people that we know acting in them.
Yes.
Sometimes.
But yeah,
some value there anyway.
Yeah.
Youtube,
subscribe to Youtube.
That's a good way.
Also,
Jack was a store.
It's called Jocko store,
Jocko store.com.
There are some good shirts on there.
Literally,
literally
true.
This is good backwards anyway.
I'm not saying to buy something,
just go on their checkout stuff.
If you like the stuff on there,
get something.
This stuff for women,
shirts,
patches,
rash guards,
hoodies,
any day.
Now the hoodies are,
the more they're heavier.
Yes.
And I'm gonna put some new routes heaviest there.
Well,
here's the thing about the heaviest.
So I'm going through the options.
You know,
Holly,
there's one that's like too heavy and it's like super expensive or been to
Michigan.
They're like,
you've never been to Maine.
Yeah.
Well I guess you haven't been to many.
You're going to be,
wasn't it?
Wasn't that cool?
Yeah,
no,
I get it.
Um,
put it this way,
I'm convinced.
Okay
for whatever that's worth,
I'm convinced this is the appropriate one.
Okay.
That's what I think.
Well,
we meaning everyone that listens to this and myself,
we will be the judge of that,
especially people that are from the north of America
or Canada.
Sure.
The northern region.
I got,
I got you and I'm,
I'm confident.
Yeah,
just give me the feedback.
All good.
We will also psychological warfare on your journey
slash campaign against weakness.
If you run into those days where you're not feeling like it and that's affecting
you where you're led to make or potentially make the decision to slack,
hit the snooze,
skip the workout,
cheat on the Diet,
procrastinate more or other forms of weakness.
You listened to this
album with tracks,
Jocko checks telling you pragmatically why you shouldn't give into those
weaknesses.
Results do not vary.
100% success rate on that one.
In my experience,
psychological warfare on iTunes,
Amazon music,
anywhere where they sell.
MP Three S it's a good one.
Very effective.
Good way to support as well.
Also on Amazon Jocko White Tea,
you can get that through Amazon.
You just searched Jocko white tea and then you order it and then you drink it
and you start throwing things around and smashing everything around you.
That's what it does.
No big deal.
Be prepared.
Do have some books there too.
You can get them weigh the warrior kid.
That's a kid's book.
Extreme ownership.
That's a book about leadership discipline equals freedom field manual.
That comes out October 17th it's,
it's a book about getting after it for lack of a better word.
Now what's interesting about this is the book is the book is not going to be
available through audible itself.
It's going to be available through MP3 platforms such as iTunes,
Google play.
What other platforms are there?
Amazon prime music,
music,
listening,
Amazon,
so that's what's going to be available.
The reason we did that is that the beats that we could instead of just make it a
big long multi hour drone of the talking,
it's caught up as an album with tracks,
which seems to be the way that way you can utilize it for just quick listening
for almost like you'd use psychological warfare album.
Yeah.
And if,
if a manual,
that's why I like this.
No,
it's not a story.
That's not a story.
You know,
it's not a story does when he goes warfare d I mean discipline equals freedom
field manual is not a story.
It's a field manual.
Sure.
It's instructions.
So you can get that there for your business echelon front leadership,
me,
Leif,
Babin,
JP Denelle,
Dave Burke,
if you want to get tied into that,
if you want us to come out and work with your company info@echelonfront.com.
So that is that those are all great ways to support this podcast.
We appreciate it and thanks to everyone for your support and mostly for
listening to the podcast,
especially those that are out there in uniform that provide the freedom and
protection that we will never take for granted.
Freedom that men like Charlie Plumb and Jim Kunkel fought and sacrificed to
uphold for us.
And I would simply ask everyone to make something out of the freedom that you
have.
Don't waste it.
And the way that you get the most out of your freedom.
I'll tell you that what way?
That is.
The way you get the most out of your freedom is discipline.
That's how you get the most out of your freedom.
Push yourself hard,
get things done,
create and build and make yourself the best you that you can't.
Yeah.
In everything that you do.
But getting out there,
the getting after it.
So until next time,
this was Mr Jim Conkle,
Captain Charlie Plumb and Echo,
and Jocko
out.